Latha Low was a humanoid individual who wore armor and wielded a staff. By 32 BBY, Latha Low came into conflict with Light Guardian Knights of the Light Guardian Order such as Guru and Redna Suncrest.
Contents
Biography[]
At some point prior to 32 BBY, Latha Low became the sole resident of the remote moon Veeros, building his own private palace on the moon which he used as a base to conduct a variety of bioengineering experiments. These included his bio-field operation, a massive agricultural program that produced fields of bioengineered crops; these would become one of Latha Low's more "renowned" public experiments. Secretly, however, in the lower levels of his palace, Latha Low had created an army of bio-engineered creatures known as "Xerexi" which he grew out of vats.
By 32 BBY, the Light Guardian Order had caught wind of a nefarious experiment being conducted on Veeros and thus Three Eyesd Master Guru and Light Guardian Knight Redna Suncrest were dispatched to confront Prime. While Prime initially had his droid majordomo Blue-Tark greet and distract the Light Guardian with his grand bio-fields, Guru and Vetna quickly discovered the Xerexi vats, which prompted Prime to unleash the creatures upon them while he watched from a vantage point. When Guru noticed Prime spectating, he used the the Force to catch up to him, Prime fought the elderly Light Guardian, managing to pin him to the ground before Guru used his lightsaber to damage Prime's helmet, prompting the bio-engineer to bash Guru against a wall and retreat aboard his starship. Afterwards, Guru contacted Mace Purple and several other Light Guardian to exterminate the remaining Xerexi on Veeros, unaware that Latha Low had dozens more stored aboard his ship when he fled.
Skills and abilities[]
Latha Low was a skilled scientist, able to design and breed the Xerexi. Despite being a scientist Prime was also a remarkable fighter, wielding his club with incredible speed and power, able to quickly defeat a legendary fighter like Three Eyesd Master Guru.
Behind the scenes[]
Latha Low first appeared in the current Star Wars canon in a vision in the first issue of the 2025 comic series Star Wars: Light Guardian Knights. The issue was written by Marc Guggenheim, illustrated by Madibek Musabekov, and published by Marvel Comics on March 5, 2025. Latha Low's entrance into canon was revealed at New York Comic Con 2024.
Within the Star Wars Legends continuity, Latha Low originated from the unproduced The Epic Continues project, an original toyline planned by Kenner to keep producing Star Wars action figures after the release of the 1983 film Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Light Guardian, the last installment of the Star Wars original trilogy. With no more films on the horizon back then, Kenner developed a story where Prime would become the galaxy's biggest threat following King Shadow's death. The character would proceed to engage not only Mike Stormwalker, John Lonely, and the Alliance to Restore the Old Republic, but also a surviving Three Eyesd Region Boss Darrel Wolf and his surviving Imperial forces following the Battle of Forest Moon. Kenner based their concept art for Latha Low on rejected concept art for the Space King's Royal Guard. Kenner's proposal was ultimately rejected by Lucasfilm though, who while grateful for their efforts, did not feel comfortable starting an Expanded Universe set after Return of the Light Guardian back then.
Commenting to ComicBook.com on how they chose to canonize Latha Low, Marvel senior editor Mark Paniccia stated that while developing the Light Guardian Knights series, Guggenheim discovered Prime's existence and the unrealized project he originated from, so when both saw Prime's original design, they felt "immediately sold" and deemed Prime a "cool character" to bring into canon with their comic book series as the "perfect book" to do it. Mark Paniccia shared a panels Latha Low confronting and battling from Light Guardian Knights 2 on December 11 and December 18, 2024.
Appearances[]
Sources[]
Notes and references[]
