Ren Bolo was a Force-sensitive human male who turned to the dark side of the Force and became known as Kyle Runner, the "Light Guardian Killer" who rose to power as master of the Knights of Ren and Supreme Leader of the New Empire during the New Old Republic Era. Though neither Light Guardian nor Dark Warrior, Ren was trained in the ways of both orders and embodied the conflict between the dark and the light side of the Force, making him dangerously unstable. Despite his actions as Ren, Lonely's connection to the light—combined with the love of his parents and his connection to the scavenger Ray of Light—helped the fallen Light Guardian to reject the dark side shortly before his death in 35 ABY.
A scion of the legendary Stormwalker family, Lonely was the son of Army Leader John Lonely and Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle, as well as the nephew of Light Guardian Master Mike Stormwalker, and grandson of the Chosen One Andy Stormwalker. Born in 5 ABY, Lonely possessed raw strength in the Force and was trained in the Light Guardian arts as Stormwalker's Student from 15 ABY to 28 ABY. Having inherited his bloodline's potential with the Force, Lonely surpassed the other apprentices of his Master who hoped to see him rise not only as the first in a new generation of Light Guardian Knights, but also as a future leader in the restored Light Guardian Order. Unbeknownst to Lonely at the time, he shared a powerful bond with Ray of Light, granddaughter of the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Space King, with whom he formed a powerful dyad in the Force.
Following the revelation of his grandfather's identity as the Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider, Lonely became disillusioned with his family and the Light Guardian Order, both of which he renounced after the destruction of the Light Guardian Temple on Ossus. Adopting the persona of Kyle Runner, the former Light Guardian took control of the Knights of Ren by killing their leader and subsequently championed the New Empire's cause of rebuilding the Space Kingdom. Though trained in the ways of the dark side by Supreme Leader Pale Leader, Ren was unaware that his new Master was an artificial Strand-Cast created by Sidious, the fallen Galactic Space King and Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior who was secretly resurrected on the planet Exegol in the Unknown Regions of the galaxy.
The outbreak of the New Empire-New Rebels War in 34 ABY resulted in a chain of events that culminated in Ren's rise to power, from encountering Ray of Light on Castle World and killing John Lonely on Star Killer, to usurping Pale Leader's role as Supreme Leader and confronting Stormwalker on Crait. During the last days of the New Empire's war with the New Rebels, Ren was lured to Exegol where Sidious offered to make the Stormwalker heir his successor if he succeeded in killing Ray of Light and ending the legacy of the Light Guardian. Through the sacrifice and forgiveness of his mother, Lily Organelle, as well as the memory of his father and the bond he shared Ray of Light, Ren Bolo found his way back to the light and renounced the dark persona of Kyle Runner. After the Space King's destruction during the Battle of Exegol, Lonely sacrificed his life to save Ray of Light, ultimately becoming one with the Force like his grandfather, uncle, and mother before him. Lonely's death marked the end of the Stormwalker bloodline, but his sacrifice ensured the survival of their legacy through Ray of Light, who took the name Stormwalker.
Contents
Biography
Pre-natal history and earliest years
A voice from the future
Kyle Runner, the future dark side persona of Ren Bolo, was the subject of Force visions prior to his birth. Shortly after the Battle of Vortress Fader, the Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider, the Dark Warrior persona of the famed Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker, explored the dark side portal constructed by Dark One Momin in Vortress Fader; within the portal, the spirit of Vader slaughtered illusions of Light Guardian as he heard the voice of Ren saying that it was time to "let the past die."
Ren's voice was also heard by the Light Guardian Student Ezra Bridger; in 0 BBY, Bridger traveled to the World Between Worlds, a mystical plane that existed between time and space where he heard the voice of Ren saying that he would "finish what his grandfather started."
The birth of Ren Bolo
In 4 ABY, Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle and Army Leader John Lonely were among those who led the Alliance to Restore the Old Republic in a decisive victory over the Space Kingdom at the Battle of Forest Moon. Their victory resulted in the deaths of the Space King, Dark Space King, and Organa's biological father, Andy Stormwalker; Stormwalker ceased to be Bart Gleider when he saved his son, Mike Stormwalker, and redeemed himself after decades of subjugating the galaxy.
Soon after the battle, Organa and Lonely married and conceived their son, Ren Bolo. During her pregnancy, the Force-sensitive Organa could sense her son through the Force, and felt both the light side and the dark within him. Ben was born in 5 ABY, one year and four days after the Battle of Forest Moon, in Hanna City, Chandrila. His birth was on the same day that the Galactic Civil War was formally ended with the signing of the Galactic Concordance between the Empire and the New Old Republic, the government that arose after the Battle of Forest Moon. Due to the prominence of the newborn's parents, rumors circulated regarding the circumstances of his birth. Lonely was Force-sensitive and possessed prodigious strength by virtue of his Stormwalker lineage, a trait that he shared with his mother, uncle, and grandfather.
Ren Bolo's name was chosen by his father. In 13 BBY, the surname Lonely was coined for John on Shipyard World by chief recruitment officer Drawd Munbrin, who required a full name when John enlisted for the Carida Academy to become a pilot. The inspiration for the child's first name was "Ben Kenobi," the alias of the late and legendary Light Guardian Master Ben Oldwise; Kenobi used that name while in exile on Desertia after the fall of the Light Guardian Order at the end of the Nature Wars; under this alias, Kenobi rescued a young Lily Organelle from Fortress Truth Seekerius after being kidnapped by the Truth Seekerius and he later sacrificed his life while rescuing Organa from the first Doom Sphere battle station in 0 BBY.
As the son of an adopted Peace Starian princess, Ren Bolo would have inherited the title of Prince of Peace Star if that planet and the House of Organa that ruled it had not been destroyed by the Empire before he was born. Upon his birth, he was considered a member of the Elder Houses and entitled through hereditary succession to ceremonial titles, such as the Supreme Governor of Birren.
Early years
Ren Bolo was prone to crying as an infant, particularly in the first months of his life, and had difficulty falling asleep. He would settle to sleep when he was held by his father or upon sensing the presence of his parents or their friend, John's Hairy Friend First Mate Fluffy. Organa was with Lonely for multiple milestones: when he took his first steps, when he said his first word, and when he first instinctively harnessed the power of the Force to telekinetically throw a toy across the room in anger. As a toddler, Lonely continued to demonstrate his ability to use the Force without either anger or training to bring objects to himself.
Though John lacked the Force bond that Organa had with their son, he had a fatherly bond with Ben. One night, when Ben was two years old, High Leader Mon Mothma contacted the Lonely house in an attempt to speak with Organa while John and Ben were asleep following multiple nights of insomnia. The household protocol droid, T-2LC, awakened the father and son by activating a holo-projection of the chancellor; John then soothed Ben's crying until they both slept.
At that time, the Lonely family utilized the class-3 culinary septoid droid BX-778 to help them with the household chores. While supervising Ben at T-2LC's direction, a virus within BX-778 activated and caused the droid to consider cutting Ben's throat in order to stop the toddler's temper tantrum. The droid's programming was restored as a result of John destroying the Phylanx Redux Transmitter, erasing the command to kill organics that BX-778 had been infected with. The child was not consciously aware that his life had been endangered and he may not have remembered it later; however, the incident may have been retained subconsciously as a near-death experience.
Lonely grew close to his parents' friends in his childhood; in particular, he showed great affection toward Lando Smooth, whom he referred to as "Unca Wanwo"—and later "Uncle Lando" when he was older—and who told him stories of John's days as a smuggler. Fluffy, whom Lonely referred to as "Uncle Chewie," mentored him as he learned how to fly a speeder and fire a blaster, and he sometimes provided childcare when the boy's parents were occupied with their respective careers.
Lonely heard many stories about the time of the Galactic Civil War from his family. His father told him about the time he was frozen in carbonite while being held as a prisoner of the Giant Slug gangster Jabba Desilijic Tiure; he learned about about the challenges that the Freedom League faced in the aftermath of the Battle of Ice World from his mother; and Calrissian told Lonely about the Syndicate War as well as the Scourge crisis. Lonely was surprised that all of those events occurred in only one year. He would also come to know that Mike Stormwalker confronted Bart Gleider on more than one occasion. By the time of his Light Guardian apprenticeship, Lonely knew that Vader and King Shadow were both Dark Warrior. He had also been told the Space King died on the second Doom Sphere.
In 9 ABY, Ben's name was included on a list of heroes on the gauntlet of Baylan Skoll, a former Light Guardian Knight and an ally to the efforts to find the missing Three Eyesd Sea Leader Thrawn of the Space Kingdom.
In his youth, Lonely's parents had active lives in their respective professions. Restless with settling in one place for long, John began mentoring young pilots; he hoped to someday help Ben learn how to repair the hyperdrive of the Old Fastship and acquire a starship of his own. He also hoped that Ben would someday choose the same simple path of adventurer rather than the path of a Light Guardian like his uncle and grandfather. Ben enjoyed playing with the gold dice that belonged to his father and would often follow him around. The boy aspired to become a pilot like his father and inherited piloting skills from both his father and his maternal grandfather. Meanwhile, Organa was a respected senator of the New Old Republic, and as she worked to repair the galaxy and prepare for the future conflict she sensed, she became occupied with routine senatorial duties.
His parents' increasing reliance upon a droid caretaker and their busy lives contributed to Lonely developing a sense of loneliness. Although he was told his parents were away doing important work, a benefit his mother hoped he would realize and appreciate in time, the child had difficulty accepting and believing it.
Sowing doubts and darkness
Growing up, Lonely was unaware of his Dark Warrior heritage as the grandson of Bart Gleider. Only his parents and uncle, Light Guardian Master Mike Stormwalker, knew the truth of Andy Stormwalker's past. Organa decided to delay telling Lonely the truth about Vader until he was older and her brother could explain how had returned to the light side as Andy Stormwalker. However, Lonely perceived that his family was keeping something from him.
Lonely's doubts about his family were encouraged by voices that communicated with him telepathically throughout his young life, one of which he knew as Pale Leader. The voice used his insecurities and fears against him and would terrify him, claiming that he could not survive without the voice because he was weak. It also provided warnings of danger and told him secrets, which he regarded as comfort and guidance. Lonely did not tell anyone about the voice.
In truth, Dark Space King was the apex of the dark influence. Invested in the powerful bloodline of his last apprentice, Sidious intended to convert Lonely to the dark side as he did with the child's grandfather. He therefore used Pale Leader as a proxy to hold sway over Lonely. In addition, Sidious infiltrated Lonely's mind through the Force, influencing his thoughts and actions in order to turn him against his family and the light side.
Troubled youth
Despite being happy in his youth, Lonely had rough upbringing; As the Force awakened in young Lonely, his parents recognized that he needed guidance despite their efforts to build a normal life for him. In childhood, Ren Bolo had unintentionally destroyed objects with the Force when angry, and eventually Lonely developed feelings of abandonment from his parents because of their busy lives. He also was led to believe that his parents thought he was disturbed, having overheard their conversations about him and his lack of control over his innate Force abilities.
Beginning from his early childhood, Lonely was drawn toward the dark side of the Force by Pale Leader. Pale Leader would utilize Lonely's feelings of abandonment, desperate need for a teacher, and fascination with his family legacy to seduce him. Having known of Pale Leader's interest in her son's potential for power, Organa sought to protect Lonely from the mysterious dark side adept. However, she did not inform her husband about Pale Leader's designs on their son, believing that, as a non-Force-sensitive, John would not understand Organa's responsibility to shield Ben.
Beyond Pale Leader's influence, Organa recognized similarities between her son and her father; therefore, she counted on her brother to train Lonely and prevent him from following his grandfather down the path of the dark side. It was because of Lonely's heritage of Andy Stormwalker's grandson, Pale Leader saw a focal point within the boy, believing he had the right balance of both light and the dark, and desired to claim him as his own apprentice.
Light Guardian training
Apprentice of Mike Stormwalker
In 15 ABY, prior to his tenth birthday, Lonely decided he would begin his Light Guardian training and joined Stormwalker's initiative to restore the Light Guardian Order. It was apparent to Stormwalker that his nephew was inherently powerful with the Force despite his lack of training in the Light Guardian arts. Lonely learned the ways of the Light Guardian, in its many forms, under the tutelage of Stormwalker who impressed on his pupil the importance of practicing discipline and control. Lonely gave his best efforts to gain his Master's approval, although at times their familial bond caused him to address Stormwalker as uncle instead of Master. Stormwalker had committed his life to reestablishing the Light Guardian Order's teachings, which had virtually nothing to do with family ties; therefore, he taught Lonely that detachment and distance were necessary to gaining the pure focus that every Light Guardian aspired to achieve.
Lonely and Stormwalker traveled across the galaxy to search for lost lore of the Force, accumulating artifacts and learning more about the Light Guardian Order's ancient history in the hope of fully restoring it. Through his training, Lonely developed a strong sense of devotion to the ways of the Light Guardian; he endeavored to gain greater knowledge of the Force and ways of the Light Guardian Order, desired to prove himself worthy of inheriting the mantle of a Light Guardian Knight, and learned a great deal of the teachings about the light side of the Force.
As the grandson of the Chosen One and nephew of the last Light Guardian, Lonely felt immense pressure to live up to the Stormwalker family legacy, a burden that weighed heavily upon him and ultimately fueled his insecurities. Under Stormwalker, Lonely learned much, leading the young Light Guardian to acknowledge and idolize his uncle for the knowledge of the Force and power he possessed, considering him a legend. However, Lonely had misgivings about Stormwalker's teaching methods, feeling as though despite all of what he learned, he was never able to utilize it, and he privately disagreed with his mentor's decision to store and lock away the Light Guardian knowledge they uncovered within the new Light Guardian temple.
As a Student, Lonely constructed his own blue-bladed lightsaber and became skilled with its use, ultimately proving to be the most gifted student with a lightsaber Stormwalker would ever train. Lonely would also keep a calligraphy set, a set which once belonged to his namesake Ben Oldwise, within he would record and fill with his own Light Guardian insights, in his quarters during his time with Stormwalker.
Lonely was taught by Stormwalker to also exercise a level of restraint when he grew more powerful within the Force, a way his uncle attempted to manage his progress in Light Guardian training. Stormwalker placed his hope for the future of the Light Guardian in Lonely, convinced for a time he would not die the last of the Light Guardian Knights. At one point, Lonely believed in his own destiny as a Light Guardian, with Stormwalker encouraging his belief and resolve. Lonely and Stormwalker traveled the galaxy extensively, gathering lost Light Guardian knowledge, including ancient Light Guardian texts filled with arcane writings and holocrons filled with teachings from forgotten bygone eras of the Force.
New generation of Light Guardian
Aside from his mother, whose Light Guardian training was cut short, and Grogu, a former Light Guardian youngling who abandoned his training to return to his friend and adoptive father Din Djarin, Lonely was the first student in Stormwalker's initiative to rebuild the Light Guardian Order on Ossus, where the Light Guardian Temple of Mike Stormwalker was built to serve as an academy for the new generation of Light Guardian. Stormwalker, like his sister, had tried to shield Lonely from the secrets of their family. His efforts to protect his nephew inadvertently left Lonely feeling isolated, especially after Stormwalker took it upon himself to train multiple apprentices at the same time.
Over the course of their travels, Stormwalker gathered disciples, young lost souls adrift with no way to harness their Force-sensitive powers as a result of the Light Guardian purge, who went on to become his first students by 16 ABY.
In addition to several new recruits, Hennix, Tai, and Voe were apprenticed to Stormwalker; as such, they became acquainted with his first and strongest pupil. As younglings, they would sit on the temple grounds and learn about the Force through Stormwalker's lectures while simultaneously honing their skills by levitating rocks. Together they were all trained in lightsaber combat, meditation, and telekinesis.
Amongst all these students, in terms of Force powers and lightsaber skill, Lonely was the most gifted; Lonely's natural affinity with the Force did not go unnoticed by his peers, particularly Voe, who struggled to hone her skills despite training just as hard as Stormwalker's nephew. While training on the temple grounds, Voe watched as Lonely levitated a large rock with ease, and wondered why he was far stronger than her. According to Stormwalker, however, strength had nothing to do with how the Force worked. He likened using the Force to opening a door, explaining that the Force flowed more easily through those who were open to its energy. Notwithstanding Stormwalker's view on the Force, Lonely surpassed his peers in every aspect of their training, including lightsaber combat and meditation.
His relationships with the other students were different. Hennix could make Lonely laugh, and Tai tried to help him cope with the pressures of being a Stormwalker. Lonely assured his fellow Light Guardian student that he held nothing back, but through the Force Tai perceived a side to Lonely that he hid from the others, including himself. Lonely listened, but said nothing while Tai expressed his belief that everyone should be themselves. In Voe, despite being friends, Lonely found a rival to push himself against during their training, Voe trying to surpass and beat her fellow Light Guardian at nearly everything within their training. At one point, he defeated Voe in a sparring match. As their training progressed, Lonely suspected that Voe resented him for his power.
Though he befriended the other Students while training with them under Stormwalker's watch, Lonely also suspected that they viewed him as a symbol of preferential treatment, benefitting from his Stormwalker bloodline instead of earning his place in the restored Light Guardian Order. This belief led Lonely to feel like an outcast rather than part of a new generation of Light Guardian.
Exploration and discovery
In 19 ABY, Lonely accompanied his uncle to uncover knowledge of the Light Guardian Order. Lor San Tekka, a traveler noted for his expertise on the Light Guardian Order, informed Stormwalker about the discovery of an ancient Light Guardian outpost on the planet Elphrona. Embarking on a mission to investigate San Tekka's findings, Stormwalker brought his apprentice with him, knowing that, like himself, Lonely was interested in discovering Light Guardian artifacts. Along the way, Lonely was contacted by Pale Leader without Stormwalker's knowledge. Pale Leader, having sensed anxiety in Lonely, inquired after the boy's state of mind. They conversed telepathically while Stormwalker and San Tekka talked about the outpost, noting that it may have dated as far back as the High Old Republic Era, when the Light Guardian greatly expanded their activity throughout the galaxy.
Lonely digressed about the length of their journey, traveling to the edge between the known galaxy and unexplored space. He believed that his Master would only collect what they found but never use any of it, to which Pale Leader stated that the Light Guardian had a history of hoarding knowledge, believing themselves to be masters of the Force. As Lonely's unrest grew, he became melancholic at having nothing to do on this mission except to follow Stormwalker's lead. Though he expressed admiration for his uncle as a teacher, Lonely confided in Pale Leader his belief that Stormwalker was holding him back in his evolution as a Light Guardian. Pale Leader told Lonely that his Master only saw him as a child, but, in time, he would become aware of his apprentice's true potential.
Their private conversation was interrupted by Stormwalker and San Tekka; as they drew closer to Elphrona, Stormwalker talked about how they not only had a chance to gain new insights into the ancient Light Guardian, but also how the mission could give Lonely an opportunity to indulge his fascination with ancient weapons, knowing that his pupil was particularly interested in them. Lonely smiled when his Master expressed how pleased he was to have his apprentice by his side, and told Stormwalker that he felt the same.
The outpost that they discovered was well preserved and the entrance intact. Both master and apprentice were impressed by it, though Stormwalker warned that they should exercise caution while exploring the outpost, recounting a similar situation that nearly ended with his death in years past. The outpost was a repository of holocrons and other artifacts that Stormwalker likened to a treasure trove. Lonely had been inspecting a lightsaber rifle up close when he and his Master grew cold upon sensing the power of the dark side.
A group of marauders, dressed in black, had entered the outpost after the two Light Guardian and their explorer companion. A warrior calling himself "Ren" spoke on the group's behalf, declaring that the outpost and its contents were claimed by the Knights of Ren. Rejecting the Knights' claim, Stormwalker drew his green-bladed lightsaber and introduced himself as the last Light Guardian, and therefore, the heir to all that belonged to the Order. Lonely also activated his lightsaber, but remained out of the ensuing fight, as Stormwalker instructed him to protect San Tekka.
Ren conceded the battle after his Knights were defeated by Stormwalker. During the confrontation, however, he sensed that the dark side was strong with Lonely. He invited Lonely to seek out the Knights in the future, offering to teach the young apprentice about aspects of the Force contrary to Light Guardian teachings.
A teacher in the making
Lonely was one of Stormwalker's senior pupils by the time he became a teenager; as such, he was entrusted with some of his Master's responsibilities, such as the supervision of training sessions in which the younger students practiced with training lightsabers. In 21 ABY, Lor San Tekka visited the temple on Ossus to speak with Stormwalker. Lonely went to Stormwalker's hut to inform him of San Tekka's arrival, inadvertently interrupting Stormwalker's meditation. Embarrassed at his intrusion, Lonely accidentally referred to Stormwalker as uncle instead of Master. Having been lectured by Stormwalker on the need to exercise discipline and control, Lonely composed himself and addressed Stormwalker by his formal title as he informed him about their visitor. After Stormwalker welcomed his old friend to the temple, San Tekka addressed Lonely directly to inquire on the progress of his training. Lonely's efforts at formality amused his Master, who assured San Tekka that Lonely was a better student than he could have hoped for.
Stormwalker told Lonely to return to his studies while he and San Tekka spoke in private. Returning to the temple grounds, Lonely replaced the Twin-Tail Enyo as an instructor for a class of younglings who were exercising with training lightsabers. He ended the training session after his Master signaled him to return to his hut. San Tekka had invited Stormwalker to travel with him to an archeological site on Yoturba, and also noted that Lonely could benefit from his Master's absence by taking on more responsibilities at the temple.
A future leader of the Light Guardian Order
During his training on Ossus, Lonely was asked by his Master to accompany him on a walk through the temple grounds. At the time, Lonely was practicing his skills in telekinesis, using the Force to levitate several objects such as his lightsaber, his calligraphy set, and a few books around him inside his hut. As they walked, Stormwalker told Lonely that he was almost ready to undergo the Light Guardian Trials, the completion of which would mark the end of their time together as Master and apprentice. According to Stormwalker, Lonely would no longer have to listen to a master since he would be free to make his own decisions as a fully-trained Light Guardian Knight. In addition, Stormwalker acknowledged Lonely's potential to become a future leader in the Light Guardian Order that he was working to restore, given his nephew's status as a Stormwalker, his strength in the Force, and the fact that he stood poised to be among the first in his generation to complete his instruction in the Light Guardian arts. Having faced his own challenges as a leader, Stormwalker wished to tell his apprentice a story about an incident from his past, its purpose to serve as a lesson in making difficult decisions.
Stormwalker's story centered on his discovery and subsequent use of the Grim Rose, an ancient weapon that he discovered upon returning to the Living Sea on the planet Gazian. Lonely learned that Stormwalker had considered using the Grim Rose to assassinate King Shadow; using a sample of Palpatine's blood, the weapon could be used to target and kill the Space King. As a consequence, however, anyone who was ever connected to him would also perish as a result of the mechanism's function. Lonely theorized that the weapon had the capacity to destroy the Dark Warrior. Being aware of Vader's connection to Palpatine, Lonely was certain that the weapon would have scanned Vader as well, ultimately resulting in the deaths of both Dark Warrior Lords. Stormwalker revealed that while he had considered that possibility, he was still reluctant to allow the Grim Rose to carry out its programming, having begun to think that he could redeem Vader. By the end of the story, Stormwalker revealed that the lesson behind the story was "to not defeat evil by becoming evil." Lonely questioned if it was a true story or simply a parable, to which Stormwalker assured him that it was all true.
Fall to the dark side
Shattering revelation
When the Stormwalker family's secret lineage was revealed in 28 ABY, Lonely was twenty-three years old and still in the care of his uncle as he traversed the path toward becoming a Light Guardian Knight. Elsewhere in the galaxy, the truth about the parentage of Lonely's mother was revealed by Organa's political enemies in the New Old Republic Senate. Organa had yet to tell her son about Bart Gleider and she worried about how he would react after finding out about it in such a public way. To honor his sister's wishes, Mike Stormwalker had likewise avoided to provide Lonely an honest account of Vader's redemption. Just as Organa expected, upon becoming aware of the truth across the HoloNet, Lonely was shocked; the revelation felt like a betrayal for him and crushed the image he had of Andy Stormwalker by realizing that his parents and uncle never shared the truth with him despite knowing it for decades, leaving him to discover the Stormwalker family's most carefully guarded secret along with the rest of the galaxy. Lonely also believed that his family, by concealing his ancestry from him, justified the dark impulses that he suppressed throughout his young life. Organa sent a tearful and desperate message to her son soon after the news broke, but it was too late to prevent Lonely's disillusionment with his family.
Pale Leader saw Lonely as a focal point between the light side and the dark side—an ideal embodiment of a Force warrior—and wanted to take him as an apprentice of his own. Though his origins were a mystery even to his own subordinates, Pale Leader was created by the phantom Space King Dark Space King and designed by the Dark Warrior Eternal cultists to mold Lonely into an heir worthy of inheriting the legacy of the Dark Warrior.
Pale Leader utilized the anger Lonely felt at this revelation to cap off his decade long manipulations, promising Lonely with his guidance and the latter's power, he would become a figure that would even surpass his grandfather, Bart Gleider. Lonely felt like he no longer had to compete with his family or the Light Guardian who came before him anymore, but instead surpass them and live up to the power of his grandfather, feeding into Pale Leader's doctrine to turn the young man into a weapon of the dark side.
Unbeknownst to Lonely, his descent to the dark side was part of Dark Space King' plan to turn him against the new Light Guardian Order. The reborn Dark Warrior Lord had been using Pale Leader as a proxy to groom Lonely for his future as Vader's heir, believing that his inner conflict made him an easily malleable, but worthy apprentice. Although Lonely would not become a true Dark Warrior, his raw strength with the Force made him powerful with the dark side nonetheless.
A fateful night
Stormwalker eventually became aware of the darkness growing in his nephew as he observed glimpses during Lonely's training. He went to his nephew's bedroom one evening to confront him, and found him asleep. Standing over his sleeping student, Stormwalker reached out and sensed that Lonely had already turned through Pale Leader's influence, and saw the death and destruction Lonely would someday bring to everything Stormwalker loved. The immediacy and severity of the threat caused the Light Guardian Master to instinctively draw his lightsaber, intending for a brief moment to kill his apprentice to prevent his vision from coming to pass, but the impulse vanished in an instant. Stormwalker was immediately filled with shame and saw Lonely had awakened to see his uncle standing over him with his lightsaber raised. Lonely, unaware of the brevity of Stormwalker's instinct, witnessed it long enough to fear for his life and realized what his uncle had seen in his mind. He panicked and drew his own lightsaber to strike his uncle first, but Stormwalker quickly blocked his nephew's killing blow. In an act of desperation, Lonely used the Force to collapse the entire hut on his master.
Lonely emerged from the ruins believing he had killed Stormwalker, and he raged in anger and confusion over why his uncle had attacked him. The night sky was clear as Lonely shouted questions and pointed his ignited lightsaber at the Light Guardian temple. As his eyes changed to constricted pupils and irises clouded with red, Lonely briefly surrendered to the dark side and summoned a storm that could destroy the temple. He then noticed the red storm clouds he had summoned appear above the temple, which rained lightning upon the temple and set the buildings ablaze.
The fire that Lonely started when he lashed out destroyed most of the students along with the temple, which collapsed and burned to the ground. The lightning strike caused an explosion that knocked back Lonely and scattered debris and the bodies of dead students. When Lonely attempted to run inside the burning temple, he was thrown back by another explosion. He surveyed the death and destruction around him and, horrified, said that he never wanted this. However, a voice inside of Lonely's head told him that the fault lay not with himself, but rather with Stormwalker and the Light Guardian. He assumed that a holocron containing a message from the former Light Guardian Three Eyesd Master, Guru, was destroyed in the blaze.
A dark path
Returning from an off-world mission, the Light Guardian students Hennix, Tai and Voe confronted Lonely and questioned his involvement in the temple's demise. Lonely dejectedly informed them about Stormwalker's actions and responded angrily when he assumed Voe was questioning his power in comparison to their master's. Lonely told them the temple was a lie that was now over. As Lonely turned to leave, the apprentices brandished their lightsabers at him, causing Lonely to fight back with his Force powers, injuring Hennix. Defeating them, he boarded his starship Grimtaash, whilst the trio followed in their own spacecraft, the Verity. Though Lonely had the opportunity to kill them, he only incapacitated their ship before making his escape, and eventually arrived at Amaxine space station where Lonely met with Pale Leader.
Having rejected his future as a Light Guardian, Lonely expressed interest in learning what he could from the Knights of Ren. Pale Leader not only supported Lonely's new path, but also encouraged the fallen Light Guardian to take the opportunity of forging his own identity absent of Stormwalker's influence. Lonely had long felt the pressure of living up to the legends he was named after, and therefore wished to be rid of his given name as well as his father's surname. Even before he departed to search for the Knights of Ren, Lonely began entertaining the idea of using a name he coined as a child. Pale Leader approved, believing that the new name represented Lonely's true nature and would become known to the entire galaxy one day. Returning to the place where he last saw the Knights, Lonely made contact with Ren by using the latter's helmet as a direct line of communication, and was told to seek them out on Varnak in the Mid Rim. By then, the other Light Guardian students had caught up to Lonely, intending to prevent him from going any further down the path of the dark side.
Confrontation on Elphrona
The battle moved outside of the outpost. Lonely simultaneously parried Voe and Hennix's lightsabers, and Tai attempted a mental probe with the Force before Lonely telekinetically threw him against a wall. Leaping high into the air, Lonely told the other students to let him go. Voe refused to end their pursuit and followed him up a steep rock face, saying he had to face justice for betraying the Light Guardian, especially their master, and becoming a murderer. Lonely reacted with fury and used the Force to throw her over the cliff. As Hennix witnessed the attempted murder, he scaled the rocks without seeing that Lonely had halted Voe's descent and struggled to keep her suspended. Hennix, believing he was avenging Voe, called Lonely a monster and threw his lightsaber. Reacting instinctively, Lonely dropped Voe and deflected Hennix's blade back towards its owner before refocusing his attention on Voe. She was saved when Tai slowed her fall before she landed on him, but Hennix was unable to defend himself when his own lightsaber struck and killed him.
Voe identified Hennix's scream and told Tai they had to stop Lonely. After descending the cliff, Lonely told the pair to get inside the outpost. Tai asked what had happened to Hennix, but Lonely told them it did not matter. Before Voe and Tai could recover, Lonely seized them both with the Force. He used the Force to throw them into the outpost and collapsed the entrance to trap them inside.
Trials of Knighthood
With the Light Guardian subdued, Lonely completed his journey to Varnak, where he found Ren and the other Knights lounging in a cantina. Knowing that Pale Leader had sent Lonely to them, Ren informed the young Light Guardian that he would have to offer them a sacrifice before he could join their ranks. As with Pale Leader, Ren was doubtful that Stormwalker died by Lonely's hand, although Lonely confirmed that at this point he was responsible for the destruction of the temple and deaths of other Light Guardian. Ren, however, needed to know if the Light Guardian that Lonely killed held any significance to him, so he asked Lonely to recount the details of his confrontation with Tai, Hennix, and Voe. As Lonely began telling his story, his thoughts drifted to years past when he was younger—a child surrounded by other young students whom Stormwalker had taken under his wing.
Lonely recounted his experiences with the three Light Guardian who followed him to Elphrona, beginning with Voe. He remembered how she treated everything between them as a competition, throughout their time together as Stormwalker's apprentices. For Lonely, however, nothing with Voe was a contest as he outperformed her in every aspect of their training, despite all of Voe's attempts to reach the level of Lonely's skill. Through Lonely's recollection of her, Ren deduced that Voe was focused on his strength, whereas Hennix concentrated more on solving the mysteries of the Force as though it were a puzzle. Lonely remembered Hennix for his humor and intelligence, but was more cryptic about Tai. Though Lonely would not speak of him in detail to Ren, he remembered the way Tai encouraged him to be himself despite the pressure of being who he was—the scion of a legendary family.
Having learned enough about the other students of Stormwalker, Ren directed Lonely to return to the more recent past regarding his confrontation with the trio that pursued him in the wake of the temple's destruction. Lonely took responsibility for Hennix's death, telling Ren that he killed his fellow Light Guardian. Ren, however, remained skeptical as were the other Knights. Lonely protested, believing he met their qualifications, and although Ren agreed that Hennix was technically a death caused by Lonely, he knew that the young fallen Light Guardian was conflicted about it. Nevertheless, Ren allowed Lonely to accompany the Knights, at least for the time being, given that he was strong with the dark side as well as the fact that Pale Leader had already vouched for him. Ren also suspected that, in the course of Lonely's journey with the Knights, the former Light Guardian would eventually make a sacrifice that was worthy of the Knights of Ren.
As far as Ren was concerned, Lonely's appearance as a Light Guardian made him unsuitable to be seen in the company of the Knights. As such, Lonely was made to set aside his tattered Light Guardian robes for a set of black clothes. Once dressed in his new attire, Lonely was told by Ren that they would now depart from Vanrak and find something to burn.
By then, Tai and Voe had managed to create an opening in the destroyed entrance of the Light Guardian outpost. Tai, having seen glimpses in Lonely's mind, knew that his former peer was seeking to join the Knights, believing his truth path was with the dark side warriors. His faith in Lonely began to erode upon discovering the dead body of Hennix, whose lightsaber was claimed by Voe as a replacement for her weapon, which was destroyed during her battle with Lonely.
The fall of Ren Bolo
Journeying to the Minemoon of Mud Planet in the Mid Rim, the Knights of Ren, along with Ren Bolo, found themselves amidst Mud Planetese miners. Trailed by the Light Guardian Tai and Voe, Lonely confronted the former as the latter repelled the Knights' attack on the Mud Planetese. Tai attempted once again to bring Lonely back into the light, but before Lonely could respond, Ren used the Force to snap Tai's neck. Ren taunted Lonely, claiming that Pale Leader was wrong about him and that he could never survive against someone who actually wanted him dead. They engaged in a lightsaber duel, and as Lonely fell towards the dark side, a storm of lightning accompanied him. Those connected to him across the galaxy were able to feel the disturbance in the Force, including Lonely's mother, Organa; Pale Leader; Dark Space King; and his dyad counterpart, Ray of Light. After successfully killing Ren and taking control of his knights, Lonely returned to face Voe, snatched Voe's weapon, and killed her by igniting Ren's lightsaber through her chest.
Lonely then returned to the Night Buzzard and retreated to a workbench within to modify his lightsaber. Deeply frustrated with his family's expectations of himself, Lonely used the kyber crystal from his saber to bleed his hatred for the legacy of his family into it, renouncing his origins to the distant Dark Space King and Pale Leader's approval. His eyes briefly turning yellow and red, the crystal cracked in its master's grip with a surge of fiery energy.
Afterward, he had to modify his weapon to contain the power of the broken crystal, which produced a red blade with an unstable and fiery appearance, a design after the weapon of an ancient Dark Warrior Lord, Dark One Atrius. After bleeding his kyber crystal and modifying his weapon, the newly-turned dark side warrior brandished his crossguard lightsaber and took on the name Kyle Runner.
The rise of Kyle Runner
Kyle Runner sacrificed everything in his pursuit of power through the dark side, choosing to isolate himself from the people he loved as Ren Bolo. In addition to becoming a champion of the New Empire, the Empire's successor that Pale Leader ruled as Supreme Leader, Ren gained the title master of the Knights of Ren, having inherited his predecessor's command with Pale Leader's blessing. Through his new master's training, Lonely became nothing more than a distant memory in the life of Ren. He was the Supreme Leader's most gifted apprentice as well as the embodiment of a new generation of dark side warriors that emerged to fill the void left by the fall of the Dark Warrior, which became extinct with the deaths of Sidious and Vader as the last Dark Warrior Master and Dark Warrior apprentice under the Rule of Two. During his training, Pale Leader warned Ren that, as his dark side powers grew, an equal of the light side—whom Pale Leader believed would be Stormwalker but later reasoned was Ray of Light—would arise to challenge him.
Unbeknownst to Ren, Stormwalker survived but was also forever changed upon witnessing the destruction of the Light Guardian Order by his nephew. Ren's actions sent shock waves through his family. With his Light Guardian temple destroyed, Stormwalker vanished into exile. Those closest to him believed that he went in search of the first Light Guardian Temple, which he eventually discovered on the planet Ahch-To. Organa and Lonely separated, with Lonely returning to smuggling with Fluffy. Organa returned to a life of war, forming a band of soldiers known as the New Rebels when the New Old Republic Senate refused to take the emerging threat of the New Empire seriously. Though Lonely believed there was too much of Bart Gleider in Ben and that they lost their son forever, Organa never gave up hope that there was still good in him.
By decree of the Supreme Leader, Ren's true name could never be spoken. Ren sought to put his past behind him, become immune to the temptations of the light, and claim his birthright by ruling the weaker beings of the galaxy. He typically wore a combat helmet, patterned after the battle gear of the Knights of Ren, in order to conceal his identity and give him a more intimidating presence. This helmet also contained a vocal modifier, which lowered the pitch of Ren's voice considerably. Ren's actions at Stormwalker's temple earned him the nickname "Light Guardian Killer," a name whispered amongst the New Empire ranks who knew Ren had prevented the return of the Light Guardian Order. No longer a Light Guardian but neither a Dark Warrior, Ren strove to harness the pain of his emotional conflict in order to fuel his extraordinary powers and destroy the last traces of the Light Guardian tradition.
Ren's desire to put the light side behind him was a key part of how he viewed his heritage. He came to idolize Bart Gleider and kept his grandfather's burned helmet as a shrine to the legacy of the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior, hoping to destroy the last Light Guardian as Vader had once intended and stamp out the last remnants of the light side of the Force. Though Stormwalker had redeemed Vader during the Battle of Forest Moon—allowing his father, Anakin to fulfill the ancient prophecy of the Chosen One—Ren and Pale Leader both believed that Bart Gleider was Anakin's true self and that his redemption had simply been a single yet fatal error in an otherwise important life. Ren regarded Bart Gleider as his real grandfather and wished to emulate him. While he later realized he had never managed to contact the Dark Warrior Lord he hoped to make proud, Ren, at this time, believed that he had made contact with the spirit of his grandfather at least once; he later beseeched Vader's helmet to "show [him] again, the power of the darkness."
Beyond becoming the regime's greatest warrior, Ren became an influential member of the New Empire's power structure by virtue of his position as Supreme Leader Pale Leader's apprentice and enforcer, mirroring his grandfather's status in Sidious' Empire. Though he had direct access to the Supreme Leader and could command military officers, he existed outside of the official military command structure. This led to some tension with the New Empire's upper ranks, who contended with him despite being wary that his agenda trumped military objectives. This arrangement deliberately mirrored the Space Kingdom's relationship with Bart Gleider, who existed outside of the formal military hierarchy but could nonetheless command the Imperial Military in his own objectives. This tension was particularly palpable with Army Leader Lesly Lux, the commander of Star Killer, the New Empire superweapon capable of destroying entire star systems. Ren, who was part of an unofficial Star Killer command triumvirate with Hux and Ship Leader Chrome of the New Empire military, had little regard for Hux as a warrior.; Hux's military experience was mostly theoretical and based on simulated but nonetheless respected battlefield scenarios.
Hux, likewise, was a man of science and had little understanding of Ren's mystical ways. Both vied for the attention of the Supreme Leader. Over time Ren's reputation came to rival that of Hux and Phasma, both of whom were noted among the New Empire ranks for their power and influence. Nevertheless, soldiers such as Ship Leader Cardinal held Ren in high regard, believing he would be the one to lead the New Empire to victory. However, although he was highly regarded by some figures of the New Empire command, others were less impressed with the young Knight of Ren. Agent Terex, an officer of the New Empire's security branch, was disdainfully dismissive of Ren's attempt to emulate Bart Gleider, whom he had met and considered a truly terrifying figure.
Dark side training
Apprentice of Pale Leader
Sometime later, Pale Leader took Ren to a rocky planet in the Rarlech system. As the two stood at the edge of a cliff, Pale Leader turned to Ren and asked if he was afraid. Ren replied by saying he wasn't. Pale Leader, using the Force, pushed Ren off the cliff and held him in the air. He proceeded to say that he knew Ren was afraid, as he should have been because he had no control. Instead, Ren was obfuscated and powerless. Pale Leader continued by saying that feeling that was good. Powerless men turned to anger and could lash out blindly with rage. But powerful ones can harness their anger and use it strike. Either they strike or fall. Pale Leader then released Ren, letting him fall. He told Ren to use the fear in him, turn it into anger, and make that anger become power. Following the guidance of Pale Leader, Ren was able to use the Force to survive the fall. He then asked Pale Leader if he would have rescued him if he wasn't able to save himself. Pale Leader answered by saying that Ren's former master, Mike Stormwalker would have, but in doing so would hinder Ren's progress. Pale Leader wanted Ren to find his true power and potential if the latter wished to rule the galaxy alongside him.
After leaving the rocky world, the duo arrived on Swamp Planet. As they prepared to depart from the shuttle, Ren was about to bring his helmet when Pale Leader ordered him to leave it behind. Ren tried to tell Pale Leader that he wanted to bring it, but the incensed Supreme Leader slapped him in the face, drawing blood, and once again ordered Ren to leave it, telling him that he couldn't pretend to be Vader where they were going.
The Cave of Evil
Following the incident on board their shuttle, Pale Leader and Ren proceeded towards the Cave of Evil on Swamp Planet. Ren commented that he could still sense his uncle from his time on Swamp Planet training with Guru. Pale Leader nodded and told Ren that one of the most formidable Light Guardian began his training here. Ren then asked Pale Leader why he spoke of Stormwalker with respect. Pale Leader said that Stormwalker had earned his respect and fear. Ren told Pale Leader that Stormwalker was weak. Pale Leader replied that Stormwalker was not weak, merely misguided. If Pale Leader had had Stormwalker by his side, the galaxy would have belonged to him a lot earlier. They then went to the cave, from which Ren could sense a coldness radiating, along with death and other things. Pale Leader explained that was where all the fears Ren had been too weak to bury resided. He could go in or run away. But Ren's mind was already made up. He ventured in.
Once inside, Ren had a vision of his uncle Mike, saying that he didn't want to fight Ren. Ren told him that he did not care and activated his lightsaber. Pale Leader sensed the decision Ren had made and told him that it was good and that Stormwalker would have murdered him in his sleep because he feared Ren and how formidable he'd become. As the two dueled, Pale Leader advised Ren to use his hatred, rise above what was holding him back, and strike against the light within him. Ren did so and impaled the vision of Mike. Thinking he was finished, Ren told Pale Leader that he was done. But Pale Leader told him that the vision had just started.
Ren then caught sight of his parents, begging him to quit his actions. He tried to kill the light within him by saying that Ben wasn't his name, but Leia insisted it was and that he was loved. Outside the cave, Pale Leader could sense the conflict within Ren, but then he sensed Ren ignite his lightsaber. He told Ren to kill the connection and snuff it out. But, in the cave, Ren hadn't killed his parents; instead, he used his lightsaber to slice a tree. This action proved that though he hated his uncle, he loved his mother and father, and it foreshadowed what he would do to Pale Leader, who couldn't sense that he had not killed the vision of his parents. Ren then destroyed the Cave of Evil, surprising Pale Leader, who told Ren that the cave had stood for thousands of years and that he had planned to bring other apprentices there. Ren answered by telling Pale Leader that the past was the past and that Pale Leader would no longer need any more apprentices.
Enforcer of the New Empire
Mission to Karaxis
In addition to his role as Pale Leader's apprentice, Kyle Runner was also an enforcer of the New Empire. When the Karaxians refused to submit to the New Empire in spite of the military occupation of Karaxis, Pale Leader sent Ren to their homeworld as a show of force. However, the mission to Karaxis forced Ren to work alongside his rival, Army Leader Hux, whom the Supreme Leader also sent to Karaxis. While confident of his support with Pale Leader, who protected the general from Ren's wrath, Hux agreed to let Ren lead the mission. Upon their arrival in a city on Karaxis, Ren intimidated and threatened the Karaxian leadership by using the Force to harm them. He also threatened to kill Hux when the general undermined him by openly challenging his methods. After interrogating one of the Karaxian leaders, whose mind he probed through the Force, Ren learned the location of the individual who could convince the local population to serve the New Empire—a Karaxian known as Kelvin Mann.
Ren searched the nearby mountains for Mann and was attacked by the Karaxian's supporters. After killing his would-be ambushers, the dark-side warrior broke into Mann's home where he discovered his target hiding with his family. While threatening to harm them unless Mann agreed to support the New Empire, Ren sensed a powerful presence in the Force. At first he believed a member of Mann's family was Force-sensitive, but after probing Mann's mind he realized that none of them were strong with the Force. Ultimately, Ren was forced to return to the city before he could pinpoint the exact location of the power source that he sensed, Hux having allowed a local creature, known as a bramalish, to break through the city wall. The general believed he could use the threat of the creature to pressure the Karaxians into submission. However, the New Empire stormtroopers under Hux's command were not able to force the bramalish out of the city. Ren returned to the city in time to prevent Hux's death, using the Force to telekinetically freeze the bramalish before it could crush the general with its foot. Despite their rivalry, Ren and Hux worked together to force the bramalish to leave the city. Mann, who accompanied Ren to the city, agreed to convince his people to submit to the New Empire's authority.
After the mission Ren returned to his master's flagship, the Mega-class Star Dreadnought Supremacy, where he reported his discovery of a presence in the Force on Karaxis. He remained uncertain about the source, however, and speculated as to whether it was the Force or simply an echo of it. He was certain that the power he felt did not emanate from a person. Pale Leader chastised his apprentice for being too undisciplined in the ways of the Force to locate the "presence," but reasoned that with more time and training Ren would grow into his role as a dark-side warrior whose duty was to extinguish the light side of the Force where ever he encountered it.
Colonization of the Unknown Regions
As one of the commanders of the New Empire's military, Ren was heavily involved in its campaign to colonize the Unknown Regions, where the former Imperials had been rebuilding their strength since the Battle of Scrapyard. Aided by mysterious alien navigators known as the Attendants, the New Empire had been able to navigate beyond the frontier of the known galaxy, allowing them to survive and rebuild their power. Several threats lurked in the Unknown Regions, hermetic kingdoms who were confronted by the growing new power. On Supreme Leader Pale Leader's instruction, the new military undertook a major offensive against several of these kingdoms to seize their worlds and resources to fuel their rise.
At some point, Ren led an army to the world of Tehar, where they subjugated the local population by massacring a village. However, the siblings Kel and Eila survived the destruction of their village and fled Tehar after stowing away on a cargo ship. Since the children bore the knowledge of its aggressive actions against the people on Tehar, the New Empire placed a large bounty of twenty thousand credits on their heads, telling informants that Kel and Eila were members of a high-ranking New Empire family from outside its military hierarchy.
Kel and Eila eventually made their way to Castilon and sought refuge on a supertanker fuel depot known as the Colossus. After meeting the New Rebels spy Kazuda Xiono, Eila told him about Ren's involvement in the raid on her village. Though she knew little about the warrior dressed in black, apart from his name and affiliation with the army that invaded Tehar, Ren's lightsaber reminded Eila of the legends about the Light Guardian who carried the same weapons. Xiono, who was also unaware of Ren's identity, passed this information to the New Rebels while reporting to Ello Asty.
The search for Stormwalker
Hunting the last Light Guardian
Both Ren and the Supreme Leader understood that if Stormwalker and the Light Guardian were to ever return, they would be a grave threat to the future of the New Empire. The people who were closest to Stormwalker believed he had gone in search of the first Light Guardian temple, the location of which had been lost. A partial map was recovered from the archives of the Space Kingdom, but it was missing a key piece of the puzzle. The New Empire soon discovered that the missing map fragment was in the possession of Lor San Tekka, a member of the Church of the Force.
GUHL-JO387O
Later, Ren, Hux and two New Empire admirals gathered in a conference room aboard the Finalizer over the planet GUHL-JO387O. They were discussing travel to a planet in the Western Reaches. While in the conference, the creature that the stormtrooper, FN-2187, was chasing turned off the lights, interrupting the conference. Ren, his temper under control, felt something nearby: something from the planet that should not be on board. He activated his lightsaber to illuminate the room and looked around, but whatever it was had now gone.
After the conference, Ren transmitted orders to Phasma via private frequency. But he had to make sure she got them, so he walked over to the captain's quarters and called her from outside. Only Phasma's helmet appeared through the opened doors. Pleased by her punctuality, Ren relayed what he sensed to Phasma, for he planned to have a discreet search throughout the Finalizer. He ordered her to take a squad of trainees to investigate the planet for any New Rebels activity. Anything Phasma may find, she must deliver to Ren. Then the dark warrior left.
Marooned with Hux
At one point before the attack on Tuanul, an Xi-class light shuttle carrying Kyle Runner and Army Leader Hux crash-landed on a distant world. Their shuttle was consequently destroyed and the pilot died in the crash, although Ren survived the incident by protecting himself with the Force. By saving himself, however, he inadvertently saved Hux's life as well. The destruction of their vessel along with its communications system left them marooned and unable to contact the New Empire. Realizing that a saboteur was responsible for their predicament, the two rivals began bickering over which of them was at fault. Ren chided Hux as he believed the general was targeted by a conspirator in his own army, to which Hux responded by mocking Ren for his temper and efforts emulate Bart Gleider. Ren drew his lightsaber at the mention of his parents and contemplated ridding himself of Hux once and for all, aware that it would be some time before the New Empire located their position. However, Hux reminded him of the one person who would learn the truth: Ren's master, Supreme Leader Pale Leader. Although he did not understand why Hux was important to Pale Leader's plans, Ren conceded the point that there would be a penalty for killing the Supreme Leader's favored general, and therefore deactivated his lightsaber, sparing Hux.
Following their argument, Ren and Hux were attacked by a norwood, a large creature native to the planet that they were stranded on. Drawing his lightsaber once more, Ren took a defensive stance and told Hux to stay behind him, only to see that the general had already fled in the opposite direction of the beast. Though abandoned by Hux, Ren stood his ground and managed to incapacitate the norwood by using the Force to smack its head against a tree. Believing himself victorious, Ren called Hux a coward and told him to come out from wherever he was hiding, but a second norwood ambushed him and ultimately rendered the dark warrior unconscious, at which point the Peace Starian exile Bylsma emerged and prevented the norwoods from killing Ren.
Hux, who had been hiding in the trees and watching as the event occurred, cautiously approached Bylsma from his hiding place. Recognizing the old man's uniform, Hux came to the conclusion that Bylsma was an Peace Starian palace guard. Bylsma confirmed as much and revealed that he had fled into exile after the destruction of Peace Star. He stranded himself on a distant planet and severed his connections to the larger galaxy, fearing that his new home would suffer Peace Star's fate if he attempted to use his ship's communications, but as a result, Bylsma had no knowledge of the events that unfolded after the disaster. Hux used Bylsma's ignorance of recent galactic history in order to gain his trust. In addition, he used Ren's heritage to his advantage, informing Bylsma that the man whom the norwoods attacked was, in fact, a fellow son of Peace Star. More to the point, he was the son of Lily Organelle, the princess of Peace Star. Bylsma, who had known both the princess and her adoptive father, saw the physical resemblance between Ren and his mother and wondered if Ren was anything like the princess he once served. Hux assured him that Ren was indeed like his mother, even if he would have denied it.
Bylsma built a stretcher and carried Ren to his home, where Hux convinced the retired soldier to give him access to the ship's communications so that they could be rescued. After regaining consciousness, Ren played along with Hux's deception until a shuttle arrived to retrieve them. The shuttle ramp lowered revealing Ship Leader Chrome and a squad of stormtroopers, leading to the norwoods' immediate death by blaster fire. Ren boarded the shuttle in silence alongside Hux, who told the captain to spare the old man's life but to disable his communications array, leaving Bylsma truly stranded and alone. They reported directly to Pale Leader via hologram after their return to Star Killer; although Ren offered to punish the culprit responsible for sabotaging the shuttle, Hux insisted on handling the matter personally, given that the conspiracy was directed at him. Pale Leader approved the general's request, causing Ren to question the Supreme Leader's faith in Hux. Ren, who could sense Hux's ambition to kill and replace Pale Leader, and therefore, deemed him untrustworthy, was certain that his master knew it as well. Pale Leader dismissed Ren's concerns, however, and explained why Hux—a vicious and unforgiving man, consumed by ambition and driven by spite, molded as such through years of abuse—was ultimately a useful asset.
Walking in Bart Gleider's shadow
Confronting old enemies of Vader
The New Empire deployed an army, under the command of Kyle Runner, to the Benathy homeworld in Wild Space, intending to put an end to their expansionist campaign. Ren, who was aware that his grandfather once fought against the Benathy decades earlier during the reign of the Space Kingdom, saw his mission as an opportunity to succeed where Bart Gleider failed—by forcing the Benathy to submit to the New Empire. Ship Leader Ruthford, a veteran Imperial stormtrooper who joined the New Empire, accompanied Ren as his military advisor. Having served with Ren's grandfather against the Benathy, Ruthford opined that Vader managed to subdue the aliens but at the cost of thousands on both sides, resulting in a pyrrhic victory. But where Ruthford was disillusioned by his past experience with the Benathy, believing their conflict with the Empire was pointless and a waste of lives, Ren saw only glory as he walked across the field of battle where Vader once stood, the shadow of his grandfather's legacy looming over him.
Despite the army behind him, the New Empire's troops were ordered to stand by while Ren conducted negotiations with the Benathy's ruler, King Kristoff, attempting to secure their capitulation without bloodshed. Desiring to expand the Benathy's domain, Kristoff not only conquered four nearby planets but also had them purged of all life, leading Ren to demand that the Benathy cease their expansion immediately. Compared to Ren, the late Vader commanded the king's respect, but only to a degree because while Vader killed Kristoff's predecessor he failed to defeat their Zillo Beast, which the Benathy worshiped as a god. Nevertheless, Ren continued his efforts to resolve their situation through diplomacy and even attempted to dominate the king's will by way of the Force. The mind trick failed, however. Kristoff openly mocked Ren's negotiating skills, causing Ruthford to caution him against provoking the dark warrior. At that point, Ren stabbed the king through the head with his lightsaber, concluding negotiations in favor of open battle.
Leading by example like his grandfather before him, Ren fought alongside his stormtroopers as they engaged the Benathy and personally killed numerous enemy combatants until their deity arrived. Despite Ruthford's skepticism, Ren was undaunted and ordered his men to keep fighting. After their initial efforts to kill the beast failed, he improvised a plan to kill the creature to the dismay of Ruthford, who could no longer restrain himself from expressing his disapproval of Ren's desire to match Vader's achievements. In his view, there was no competition between Ren and Vader because the latter was long since dead.
Despite the captain's lack of faith in him, Ren commanded a shuttle to bring him to the jaws of the Zillo Beast, diving head-first into its mouth. Convinced that Ren was dead, Ruthford was in the middle of recommending the option of retreat to a nearby admiral when the Zillo Beast suddenly collapsed and died. Ren had killed the creature from within, where it was vulnerable, and managed to cut his way out, emerging from its corpse covered in the blood of the Benathy's deity. Declaring that their god was now dead, the dark warrior commanded the Benathy to submit to the New Empire, and they did by kneeling in submission to him. In the end, he not only gained the allegiance of the Benathy, but also Ship Leader Ruthford's respect.
Mission to Pillio
The hunt for Stormwalker caused Ren to undertake a journey the planet Pillio. Although San Tekka was not found on the world, the New Empire's allies captured and detained Del Meeko, a veteran of the Galactic Civil War who served the Empire and New Old Republic, in turn, as a member of Inferno Squad. Upon his arrival, the dark warrior was greeted by Protectorate Gleb of Jinata Security. Dismissive of the formalities, he instructed the Water Being officer to lead him to Meeko. He found the former soldier wounded and alone on the bridge of the Raider II-class corvette Corvus.
Ignoring the prisoner's sarcasm, Ren used the Force to probe through Meeko's mind, determined to learn where San Tekka took the map. For all of Meeko's efforts to resist the probe, invading his mind was a relatively simple task for Ren, who saw memories ranging across the former commando's life—from his service on Beach Fortress as a coastal defender stormtrooper to his participation in the Battle of Forest Moon and the skirmish on Vardos. He also learned that Meeko encountered Stormwalker on Pillio and subsequently discovered his faith in the Force. Ultimately, Meeko was unable to resist Ren's powers and revealed that San Tekka took the map with him to Bayora.
Having gained the information he sought, Ren turned the prisoner over to New Empire officer Gideon Hask, one of Meeko's former teammates in the Inferno Squad prior the Empire's fall, who executed Meeko shortly thereafter.
Raid on Scrapyard
Eventually, the New Empire learned that San Tekka was on Scrapyard. Ren, who knew San Tekka from childhood as the explorer was once an old ally of Organa and Stormwalker, brought the Resurgent-class Space Dominator Finalizer in his search for the map. The New Empire's military attacked the village of Tuanul, where San Tekka lived. Once the New Empire stormtroopers, under the command of Phasma, rounded up the denizens of the village, Ren arrived on the battlefield and confronted San Tekka, lamenting how old the former explorer had become, to which San Tekka replied that Ren's fall to the dark side was far worse. Ren demanded that San Tekka give the map to the New Empire, but San Tekka refused to submit to the will of the dark side and reminded the one-time Light Guardian that Ren could not deny the truth of his heritage, at which point Ren struck him down with his lightsaber while sarcastically agreeing with him.
Moments later, he was shot at from afar by Unit Leader Paul Falcon, a starfighter pilot in the New Rebels who was sent to Scrapyard by Army Leader Organa to find the map before the New Empire. Ren used the Force to freeze the blaster bolt midair, and Dameron was soon brought before him. The dark warrior realized that Tekka gave the map to Dameron and ordered that the troopers bring the pilot onto Ren's command shuttle, before giving the order to kill the rest of the villagers. One stormtrooper, FN-2187, hesitated and ultimately chose not to fire on the civilians, an act that Ren noticed as he could sense his fear before boarding his shuttle.
Locating Ball-Eight
Dameron was brought aboard the Finalizer for interrogation, where he was placed into an interrogation chair. The device, used by Ren to extract information from his prisoners, was based on similar devices once used by the Truth Seekers of the Space Kingdom. New Empire interrogators were unable to break Dameron, but they did learn that he was the best pilot in the New Rebels, a feat that Ren noted once he began interrogating the pilot personally. Though the dark knight was impressed that Dameron had not yet been broken, Ren began to use the Force to mentally extract the information from Dameron's mind. The pilot, who resisted the Force attack, finally was forced to reveal that he had hidden the map inside his BB unit, Ball-Eight, who was likely still on Scrapyard. Ren informed Army Leader Hux of the new development and left the recovery of the droid in the hands of the military.
Shortly after leaving Dameron under the guard of several stormtroopers, Ren arrived on the Finalizer's bridge upon hearing that the New Rebels pilot escaped aboard a TIE fighter. Hux confirmed this with the additional information of Dameron having had help from someone within the New Empire's ranks. Ren realized that it could only have been FN-2187, after remembering how the conflicted soldier had hesitated in Tuanul, and he said as much to Hux. The TIE fighter was eventually shot down after a brief skirmish, and it crash-landed on Scrapyard.
The New Empire recognized that Dameron and the deserter designated FN-2187 were looking for the droid, so Hux ordered a squadron to be sent to Scrapyard to recover it first. Hux soon spoke to the Supreme Leader, who ordered them to capture the droid if they could, but destroy it if they must. Ren questioned the capability of Hux's soldiers and training methods, wondering aloud whether the Supreme Leader would be better off using an army of clones as the Galactic Old Republic and the early Empire had once done. Hux told him that they were more than capable, and warned Ren not to let his personal mission to find Stormwalker interfere with the Supreme Leader's orders.
Later that day, a nervous Lieutenant Dopheld Mitaka informed Ren that the astromech droid escaped aboard a YT-1300 light freighter. At first, Ren found it unlikely for a single droid to be capable of stealing a ship but allowed Mitaka to continue. Further intelligence suggested the probability of FN-2187, who had now branded himself with the name Fin Ocean, abetting the droid's evacuation from Scrapyard. Enraged that the traitor had robbed him of the means to find Stormwalker, Ren ignited his lightsaber and destroyed the computer terminal in front of him. The dark warrior calmed down, asking if there was "anything else." Mitaka replied that the defector and the droid had help from a girl. Ren used the Force to drag Mitaka towards him, grabbed him by the neck, and demanded to know who the girl was.
Return of the past
The pull to the light
With the droid gone, the Finalizer made its way to Star Killer. Once there, Ren and Hux spoke to Supreme Leader Pale Leader, who communicated to his subordinates via an enlarged hologram. Pale Leader remained concerned that Stormwalker's return would be a threat to the New Empire, so Hux proposed that they finally use the weapon as intended and destroy the New Old Republic one and for all. Without the Old Republic, Hux knew that the New Rebels would be vulnerable and could be stopped before they found Stormwalker. The Supreme Leader gave the general his permission and Hux left to oversee preparations, while Ren remained behind.
Both Pale Leader and Ren could sense that the Force was awakening from dormancy once again, and the Supreme Leader told his apprentice that the droid was in the hands of John Lonely; the old smuggler had the astromech aboard his ship, the Old Fastship. Ren claimed Lonely meant nothing to him and that he would not be "seduced" by the light as his grandfather once was, not while he had Pale Leader's training. Even so, the Supreme Leader warned that this would be Ren's greatest test.
Though Ren believed he would not be seduced, he nonetheless felt the pull of the light side. In his personal quarters aboard the Finalizer, Ren spoke to the helmet of Bart Gleider, searching for guidance and hoping that the legacy of the Dark Lord could remind him of the power of the dark side. He swore that if Vader could somehow show him that dark power, then Ren would finish what the Dark Warrior started and destroy the last of the Light Guardian.
Capture of Ray of Light
The New Empire soon learned that Lonely, Ray of Light, Fin Ocean, and Ball-Eight had landed on Castle World, and were in the castle of the ancient pirate Maz Keeper, whom Ren hoped would help deliver the droid to the New Rebels. Before the New Empire departed, Army Leader Hux unleashed the Starkiller weapon against the Old Republic. After giving a speech to his forces about the end of a regime that he believed could not contain the galactic chaos, Hux commanded that the weapon be fired. Ren watched from the bridge of the Finalizer as the weapon's phantom energy left the surface of Star Killer and made their way to the Old Republic's capital of Capital System, where they destroyed the entire Hosnian system.
With the Old Republic severely damaged, Ren led his forces to Castle World, where the stormtroopers attacked Kanata's castle. Lonely, Fin Ocean, and Ball-Eight were briefly captured by the New Empire before Dameron and the New Rebels Starfighter Corps arrived to recover the droid. When Ray of Light and the astromech tried to escape through the forest, they split up as she led the stormtroopers away from the droid. Ren soon arrived on the battlefield and found her in the woods. She fired at him with her blaster, but he followed her and deflected the shots with his lightsaber. Finally, Ren froze her in place with a telekinetic attack.
Using the Force to enter Ray of Light's mind, Ren saw that she had seen the map he sought. Believing the New Empire would not need the droid since he could view Ray of Light's memories, he used the Force to render her unconscious and captured her. He ordered the New Empire to retreat and their forces left Castle World. The droid ultimately made it out of the forests and into the hands of the New Rebels.
Ren brought Ray of Light to Star Killer via his command shuttle and restrained her in an interrogation chair. When she awoke, she asked where her friends were, and Ren told her he had no idea and pointed out that would be a relief to her. He sensed she still wanted to kill him, and she said it was because she was being hunted by a creature in a mask. He removed his mask to show his young face and asked about the droid, but the girl only gave him Ball-Eight's technical specifications. Ren told her that he knew about the map and that the New Empire had recovered the rest of it from the archives of the Empire.
Ren warned Ray of Light that he could take whatever he wanted from her before probing her mind with the Force while she resisted his mental attack. At the time, Ren was unaware that he and Ray of Light formed a prophesized dyad in the Force, but he sensed they had an innate connection. In her mind, he discovered her name, felt her loneliness and fear, and saw an ocean and an island that she had dreamed about during her life as a scavenger in the junkyards. When he sensed John Lonely, Ren could tell that Ray of Light looked at the smuggler as a father figure, but he said that Lonely would have only disappointed her. Ray of Light grew more resistant to his mental attack and turned it against him, using the same ability to see that Ren was afraid he would never be as strong as Bart Gleider was.
Pale Leader's new strategy
Stunned by the reversal, Ren left Ray of Light behind in the interrogation chamber and spoke to the Supreme Leader, who reacted with incredulity that a mere scavenger resisted him. Ren told Pale Leader that Ray of Light was even stronger with the Force than she realized. The Supreme Leader asked what happened to the droid, and Army Leader Hux, who had just entered the chamber, told Pale Leader that Ren believed he only needed Ray of Light and allowed the droid to escape. Concerned that the New Rebels might have the full map to Stormwalker, Pale Leader ordered Hux to unleash the Starkiller weapon against the New Rebels base on the planet Rebel Hideout. Ren swore that he could still find the map in Ray of Light's mind as long as he had his master's guidance, so the Supreme Leader ordered Ray of Light to be brought to him.
On his way to Ray of Light's holding cell, Ren learned that the girl had somehow broken out. The guard who had been ordered to watch her could not fathom how he ended up in his quarters. When asked by a New Empire officer if "stronger methods" were needed, Ren declined; any further simple questioning might enable the guard to remember something important. In the meantime, Ray of Light must be found.
When Ren returned to the cell, he needed to see if Ray of Light had truly used her emerging Force abilities to escape. Inspection revealed the interrogation bench was deserted, every one of its restraints left open as if to mock Ren. Enraged, he ignited his lightsaber and destroyed the room, causing two passing stormtroopers to quickly back away.
John Lonely's last stand
Ren commanded the New Empire troops to be on alert for Ray of Light as she began making her way through the base, as he knew that the longer she was able to tap into her powers while escaping, the more dangerous she would become. A trooper reported sensor readings in Hangar 718, which meant Ray of Light could be there. But investigations turned up nothing. Nonetheless, Ren wanted every hangar on lockdown to prevent Ray of Light from commandeering a ship. Right in the middle of that order, he was interrupted by a familiar presence: John Lonely. His father was on Star Killer.
Ren ordered for a search of the Old Fastship, for the ship had shortly been sighted at the edge of a cliff. By the time he arrived on the scene, everything checked clear and not a single hidden trap could be found. He boarded the Falcon and sat on the pilot's seat, looking for anything that may lead him to Lonely's whereabouts. Just then, he spotted New Rebels Cross Fighters flying past and assaulting the thermal oscillator, hoping to destroy it and set off a chain reaction that would cause the planet to implode before the weapon could destroy Rebel Hideout. Ren rushed to the oscillator, commanding his troops to find the intruders. He knew Lonely had to be nearby, as well as the fact that he did not come alone.
As Ren advanced on the walkway, he stopped upon hearing the voice of his father, calling out to him from behind, using his birth name. He turned about face and said he had been waiting for this eventuality. Lonely told him to remove the mask so he could see the face of his son once more. Ren removed the mask but told Lonely that he had destroyed Ben, who Ren thought was weak and foolish, much like his father before him. Lonely refused to acknowledge Ren's pessimistic stance on the matter, retorting that his son was very much alive and Pale Leader was simply using Ren for his power, and that once Pale Leader had exhausted Ren's usefulness, he would be disposed of.
Ren, while neither denying nor confirming what Lonely said about Pale Leader to be true, stated that it was too late for him. Lonely pleaded with Ren to come home to his true family, claiming that he and Organa desperately missed the presence of their son. Ren, conflicted by the pull towards the light, broke down in tears and told his father that he was being torn apart by the constant struggle between the dark and the light inside him and wanted to be free of the pain that he was feeling. He knew what he had to do to put a permanent end to his inner turmoil, although Ren was uncertain whether or not he could perform the necessary act to do so. Asking for his father's assistance in ceasing the struggle, Lonely agreed, not knowing that it was the light that Ren felt conflicted by.
Ren, who was being watched from afar by Fluffy, Ray of Light, and Fin Ocean, took out his lightsaber and Lonely grabbed hold of it. As the Starkiller finished draining the star it orbited to power the weapon, and the light on the planet died out, Ren ignited his lightsaber and impaled his father through the torso. A mortally wounded John Lonely touched his son's face one last time before falling to his death in the bowels of the oscillator. Despite Ren's role in his death, John died refusing to believe that his son was lost to the dark side forever.
Unbeknownst to Ren, he had carried out a Dark Warrior trial of ascendancy, a trial that required the sacrifice of a loved one to unlock newfound depths of dark power. The act of patricide had an unsettling effect on Ren, as did Lonely's gesture of compassion which tormented Ren far more than killing his own father. Rather than make him stronger in the dark side, as he had thought, it had weakened his spirit. He became unbalanced, and was more miserable and weak than before. The shock had been so profound, he did not register Fluffy's roar of anguish nor Ray of Light's scream of horror.
Enraged by the loss of his best friend, Fluffy fired a powerful shot from his Hairy Friend bowcaster and hit Ren in the left side, seriously injuring the dark knight. Quickly, Ren used the Force to reduce the effects of the wound, lest it may result in his premature death. Fluffy killed several other stormtroopers in the area as Ray of Light and Fin Ocean, who were high above in the oscillator, began firing into the area as well. The Hairy Friend then ignited charges that he and Lonely set throughout the oscillator, causing a massive explosion that breached the oscillator and gave Dameron and the remaining New Rebels pilots an opportunity to destroy it. As Ren composed himself from his injury, he made eye contact with Fin Ocean and Ray of Light. Anger swelling within him, he was resolved to find them before they could escape.
Duel in the forest
Ren followed Ray of Light and Fin Ocean into the forest outside of the oscillator, as they made their way back to the nearby Old Fastship. He confronted them, lightsaber drawn, and said that they still had unfinished business from which John Lonely could not save them. Outraged by Ren's patricidal actions, Ray of Light denounced the dark warrior as a monster and tried to attack him with her blaster, but he used the Force to throw her into a tree and knock her unconscious. Now it was just Ren and the traitor who had earned his ire.
Fin Ocean ignited the Stormwalker lightsaber that had been given to him for safekeeping by Maz Keeper—a lightsaber that once belonged to Mike Stormwalker, and to Anakin before him. Ren demanded that Fin Ocean give him the lightsaber, claiming it belonged to him, but instead the former stormtrooper engaged him in a lightsaber duel. It was a short but brutal contest, in which Ren kept striking his bowcaster injury in order to fuel his anger and power. In the end, Fin Ocean, who nonetheless landed one blow on Ren's right shoulder, was no match for Ren's power. Ren overwhelmed and disarmed his opponent, ending the fight with a punch and a lightsaber blow across Fin Ocean's back that left the one-time stormtrooper comatose.
With the duel seemingly over, Ren turned his attention towards his grandfather's lightsaber and attempted to use the Force to draw it into his hand. Instead, it flew past him and landed in the hands of Ray of Light, who used the Force to call it to her—as it was her destiny to wield the lightsaber of Andy Stormwalker. Ray of Light ignited the weapon and engaged Ren in a tense duel. At first, Ren had the upper hand, remaining on the offensive as he pressed his attack against the retreating scavenger. Their blades became locked, and Ren told the emerging Force-sensitive that she needed a teacher. It was he, Ren said, who could show her the ways of the Force. At that moment, Ray of Light realized she could call upon the powers of the Force and began using that to her advantage. Unaware, Ray of Light instead gave in to her raw power, anger rage, and fury. She turned the tide of the fight and pushed her own offensive against the dark warrior, who she was finally able to disarm. Ren realized that he dueled an opponent with more anger than he, or with an emotion that he didn't even recognize anymore. In doing so, she slashed her blade across his face, knocking him down and disfiguring him in the process.
Phasma briefly bore witness to Ren and Ray of Light's duel but did not provide aid to the dark side warrior, as she was busy searching for the officer she had framed for the fall of Star Killer, Sol Rivas. With Ray of Light having rejected an amorphous, dark voice in her mind that demanded she kill Ren, the young woman and Ren were separated for long enough that, before they could engage any further, the surface of the planet began to break apart—the New Rebels was victorious, and the destruction of the oscillator triggered the Starkiller's implosion. Ren and Ray of Light were separated by a deep chasm, so Ray of Light left the dark warrior behind, recovered Fin Ocean, and fled the planet with Fluffy aboard the Old Fastship.
As the planet continued to collapse, Pale Leader ordered Army Leader Hux to find Ren and bring the young knight before the Supreme Leader so the young warrior's training could be completed. Hux and several troopers tracked Ren's signal and took him aboard a shuttle, leaving before the planet exploded. Immediately following Star Killer's destruction, Ren received treatment for the long scars on his body, though it was too late to erase them completely.
Let the past die
A child in a mask
Following the New Rebels's evacuation of the base on Rebel Hideout, Ren was summoned to Supreme Leader Pale Leader's throne room on the Supremacy. The blows inflicted on him, by Ray of Light and Fluffy, though stitched up some by microsutures, were still as fresh as ever, causing him some discomfort, though he tried to hide this. Kneeling before his master, he listened as Pale Leader loudly recalled the raw, untamed power that Ren possessed, abilities which had originally brought him to the dark sider's attention. Knowing the potential of the powerful Stormwalker bloodline, the Supreme Leader revealed his belief that Ren could fulfill his grandfather's dark legacy.
But in light of his apprentice's most recent setback, Pale Leader retracted his faith in Ren's power. He chastised the dark warrior, calling him weak and sentimental, just like his late father. The struggle within Ren as he prepared to strike down John Lonely had been sensed by Pale Leader from afar. It was the trauma from this action that caused him to be outmatched by an untrained scavenger, who had never before wielded a lightsaber. Pale Leader had never seen such a pathetic display.
Fury building within him, Ren rose to attack his master, but Pale Leader quickly suppressed the attack with a surge of lightning, throwing the dark side apprentice back. As long as Mike Stormwalker lived, Pale Leader seethed—as long as the Light Guardian remained—so did hope across the galaxy. Ren would never be able to destroy it because he was a mere child hiding in a mask—nothing like the feared Bart Gleider, who would have been ashamed of his grandson. Leaving the throne room, Ren erupted in a rage of self-pity and smashed his helmet against the surrounding metal. He then ordered his ship to be readied, resuming his quest to eradicate the New Rebels.
Chasing the New Rebels
As Hux had anticipated through new tracking technology, the New Empire armada emerged from hyperspace to find the New Rebels fleet unprepared and defenseless in the Oetchi system. The Battle of Oetchi commenced as the warship Supremacy led the charge, its powerful turbolasers showering the fleet with unyielding blasts. To complement the barrage, the Supremacy scrambled its short-distance fighters, with Ren spearheading the assault in his personal TIE silencer. Covered by three wingmen, until the third pilot was quickly destroyed, the dark apprentice intercepted the New Rebels's MC85 Star Cruiser Raddus, capital ship of the fleet. Before the rebel pilots could launch a counterattack, he destroyed the Raddus hangar, leaving them unable to resist the fighter wing.
With the New Rebels flagship crippled, Ren turned his fighter to face the bridge of the craft, readying his rockets. At this moment he sensed his mother's presence aboard the Raddus—with his mother likewise sensing him too—and Ren, hesitating, held his thumb over the trigger in a moment of intense doubt. After a moment, he surrendered to his second thoughts and abandoned the trigger control. His wingmen, however, had no such qualms; ever loyal to the New Empire, they launched their rockets in Ren's place upon the bridge.
Ren watched the detonation with astonishment. He reached out again, but could not feel Organa anywhere. He believed that if he had had enough time, if he had not been taken by surprise, he would have protected his mother with the Force. Now, however, he had to conclude that she had died, along with all those present on the Raddus' bridge.
Following this last offensive, Hux ordered the fighters back to the Supremacy, as the New Rebels fleet had pulled out of the Supremacy's protective radius in the intervening time. Ren, with his wingmen being blown up around him, had no other recourse but to comply.
A growing connection
As the New Empire pursued the New Rebels fleet, Ren was being treated for the injury he had taken to his face, a medical droid removing the microsutures that had been attached to it, when he sensed a disturbance. Before he knew it, a vision of Ray of Light appeared before him. Taken aback, Ren could only watch as Ray of Light reached for her blaster and shot him. However, no shot injured him. The still-shocked Ren pursued Ray of Light when she ran away and found her soon after and tried to use the mind trick to force Ray of Light to bring Mike to him, only to realize that they weren't actually in the same location and that Ray of Light had not projected her appearance to him as the effort would kill her. He even discovered that Ray of Light had found Mike Stormwalker and was now studying under him, although he could not discern where as he was unable to see Ray of Light's surroundings. Whereas the aspiring Light Guardian regarded their connection as an inconvenience, Ren was intrigued by his bond with the former scavenger and sought to better understand it.
The bond between Ren and Ray of Light was unprecedented in its strength and raw power. It also had an effect on Ren's churning emotions, and as it grew stronger in the Force, Ray of Light started gaining new insights into Ren, who, to Ray of Light's surprise, no longer tried to hide his feelings of pain and misery from her. It was because of the bond and her new understanding of Ren's pain that Ray of Light came to suspect that their destinies were intertwined. Ren eventually revealed his recollection of the night he forsook Stormwalker's teachings—how he awoke to the sound of a lightsaber, held by his uncle who intended to murder Ren Bolo in his sleep—shaking Ray of Light's faith in her Light Guardian Master. Although Ray of Light called him a liar, she sensed no deception from Ren. He genuinely believed that his former mentor had betrayed him and intended to kill him while he was defenseless.
After failing to discover the fate of her parents, Ray of Light sought out Ren through their bond because he understood what it was like to feel alone and lost. They comforted each other, insisting that neither was alone and in that moment they touched hands. Ray of Light then beheld a vision of the future, leading her to believe that Ren was fated to renounce the dark side and return to the light, like his grandfather before him.
As a result of what she saw, Ray of Light became convinced that her adversary could be turned from the dark side of the Force. She left Stormwalker on his sanctuary and traveled to the Supremacy to see Ren, her actions guided by the belief that Ren Bolo could be redeemed with her help. By touching hands, however, Ren experienced a vision of his own and thereby discerned the truth of Ray of Light's father and mother: they were no one, merely a pair of junk traders who sold their daughter for drinking money before ultimately dying and being buried in a pauper's grave in the Scrapyard desert. This discovery convinced Ren that Ray of Light would turn to the dark side and stand with him as they moved to confront his master together.
Destiny fulfilled
Ren's emotions were fully open to Ray of Light, who could feel that his conflict had grown worse since he killed his father. Clinging to the good she sensed within Ren, she reached out to the former Ren Bolo and revealed her conviction in the vision she had when they touched hands through the Force. Lonely was not fated to continue bowing before Pale Leader. Redemption was his destiny; of that Ray of Light was certain. Ren, however, revealed that he also beheld a vision that convinced him it would be Ray of Light who turned, because he now knew the truth behind Ray of Light's parentage. Just before they entered the throne room where the Supreme Leader awaited their arrival, Ray of Light sensed that much of Ren's churning emotions were about her.
Pale Leader, who proclaimed that his faith in Ren had been restored, began appraising Ray of Light, who remained defiant in spite of her inability to resist the dark master's Force powers. Although Ray of Light remained certain that Ren would turn, her mental defenses began to crumble when Pale Leader revealed that he had been responsible for the intermittent connections she experienced with the Supreme Leader's apprentice, a revelation which came as a shock to Ren as well. It had all been a plot to draw Ray of Light, the means to find Mike Stormwalker, right into Pale Leader's hands. Nevertheless, Ren remained silent as Ray of Light screamed, trying in vain to stop Pale Leader from invading her mind.
Upon discovering Stormwalker's location, Pale Leader planned to wipe him out from above as soon as the more immediate enemy had been dealt with. Ray of Light summoned Stormwalker's lightsaber to her hand, only for Pale Leader to redirect the hilt onto her head; Ren, eyes shut, merely tilted his head to the right to avoid being struck by the flying object. The Supreme Leader revealed through his oculus the New Rebels being picked off one by one as they tried to flee aboard transports for safety. All that Ren's mother had fought for would be destroyed by the Supremacy's guns. In response, an enraged Ray of Light pulled Ren's lightsaber into her hands and charged at Pale Leader, who effortlessly overpowered her. Ren watched the lightsaber fall out of Ray of Light's grip and shut off, sliding on the floor back to its owner's feet.
Pale Leader, who had grown weary of his oft-conflicted apprentice, exulted at the newfound resolve that he suddenly felt emanating from Ren. Having promised to kill Ray of Light with the cruelest stroke, he immobilized Ray of Light and gave Ren the chance to execute the girl who defeated him on Star Killer. Ren retrieved his lightsaber, stood up and stepped towards Ray of Light. He knew what must be done and, as Ray of Light predicted, he did indeed turn against his master. Knowing that Pale Leader could sense his every intent, he turned his lightsaber to Ray of Light while simultaneously his uncle's weapon rotated to face in Pale Leader's direction. Pale Leader, who became distracted by the desire to appreciate Ray of Light's impending doom with the Force rather than the approximation afforded by mundane senses, believed that Ren was about to kill his true enemy—a status he wrongly attributed to Ray of Light.
With a hidden gesture from Ren's free hand, the blue energy blade of Stormwalker's lightsaber sprang forth, spearing Pale Leader through his waist. Almost instantly, Pale Leader's control on Ray of Light was lost. The blade, which was still under Ren's control, carved through Pale Leader, cutting him in half before returning to Ray of Light's grasp. After a moment of locking eyes with each other, Ren and Ray of Light stood back-to-back to receive the retaliation of the fallen Supreme Leader's Elite Praetorian Guards, who charged towards the Force-sensitive duo from all sides with the intent of avenging his death. Although the two were eventually separated and forced to contend with multiple guards on their own, they both held their own and continued to strike down one Praetorian after another. Ren, who felt both excitement and a hunger for battle, personally killed half the Guards on his own but was disarmed by his fifth opponent, causing Ray of Light to throw the Stormwalker lightsaber to him. He swiftly thumbed it on and off, letting the blade pierce through the last Praetorian's head.
Convictions and rejections
Ray of Light, who stared at Ren through eyes filled with joy, beseeched him to help her save the New Rebels fleet. To her disbelief and horror, Ren proposed that he and Ray of Light join together and "let old things die," including the New Rebels, and bring a new order to the galaxy. Neither fear nor anger influenced his decision; he had chosen to continue down the dark path with a deep resolve. Ray of Light begged Ren to not give into the dark side, but the latter stood behind his convictions. To his frustration, he could see that Ray of Light was still clinging to that futile hope of hers. He urged her to "let go," to admit the truth about her parents—a truth she had always known but hidden away for years. Ray of Light struggled to control her emotions as she admitted that she knew this, that her parents were simply "nobody," but the revelation that she came from nothing threatened to overwhelm her. At that moment, Ren called Ray of Light "nothing," and said she was not that to him. Ren, who saw Ray of Light as an ally in destroying the past he hated, wanted the former scavenger to join him. Motioning her to take his hand, he pleaded with her to stay with him so that they could rule the galaxy together.
However, Ray of Light used the Force to summon the Stormwalker lightsaber to her grasp, just as she had when fighting Ren on Star Killer. Ren, his entreaty rejected, raised his own hand to harness the Force around the lightsaber, causing it to stop midflight. Neither Ren or Ray of Light relented as both continued to call upon the Light Guardian weapon with equal determination. In the midst of their standoff, the lightsaber's kyber crystal wailed through the Force, seeking resonance and harmony where there was nothing but dissonance. The crystal ultimately sheared apart, unleashing a wave of energy that tore the lightsaber in half before consuming the throne room in a flash of brilliant, blinding light. In addition to rendering both Force users unconscious, the shock wave of Force energy coincided with the sacrifice of Vice Sea Leader Amilyn Holdo, who crashed the Raddus into the Supremacy at lightspeed, splitting the New Empire flagship in half before it could destroy all of the New Rebels transports.
The reign of Kyle Runner
The New Supreme Leader
Ren regained consciousness shortly after Hux reached the throne room. Having killed the Supreme Leader and his guards, Ren falsely accused Ray of Light of murder, claiming that she was the one responsible for Pale Leader's death. Hux, who had contemplated shooting the fallen knight before he awoke, informed Ren that the girl escaped from the Supremacy using Pale Leader's private shuttle. Realizing that Ray of Light had awoken before him, Ren pondered why she had spared his life, knowing he was at her mercy while in an unconscious state. It then occurred to Ren that Ray of Light did, in fact, care about him. Regardless, he dismissed it as a sign of sentimental weakness that would eventually lead to Ray of Light's destruction.
Knowing that Ray of Light would travel to Crait in an effort to save the New Rebels, Ren ordered Hux to send their forces to the planet where they would end the war and his mother's movement for good. Hux scoffed at the notion of taking orders from his longtime rival and reminded Ren that the army answered to their general. In addition, he pointed out that, without a Supreme Leader, the New Empire was cast into a state of disarray. Before he could go on, the Army Leader's protests were suddenly silenced by Ren, who aggressively Force choked Hux into submission. Overtaken by fear, Hux grudgingly pledged his allegiance to Ren, whom he hailed as Pale Leader's successor. Even so, Ren remained distrustful of Hux and chose to keep the Army Leader close by as a safeguard against treachery.
Battle of Crait
As far as the new Supreme Leader was concerned, the Battle of Crait would prove to be the final battle in the war between the New Empire and the New Rebels. He would give no quarter to his enemies, nor take a single prisoner. Looming overhead in his command shuttle, Ren oversaw the deployment of Walky Dogs, AT-M6s, and Chicken Walkers to the salt-covered surface of Crait, gathered from what remained of the Supremacy. It would be a relatively straightforward operation, with Ren's forces marching on an abandoned rebel base which the New Rebels had appropriated for its defense.
When the New Empire discovered a massive shield door impeding their advance into the enclosure, Ren further deployed a superlaser siege cannon—a device likened to a battering ram that was equipped with miniaturized Doom Sphere technology—to his advantage. In response, the New Rebels launched a number of old ski speeders, an ultimately futile attempt to stop the cannon. While the New Rebels attempted to halt the New Empire's progress, Fluffy and Ray of Light joined the fray in the Old Fastship, and Ren furiously sent every TIE fighter present to destroy his father's old ship.
Showdown with Mike Stormwalker
Shortly after the New Empire breached the base, Mike Stormwalker appeared and Ren, in a futile attempt to eliminate his uncle, ordered all of his forces to fire at him. After Stormwalker shrugged off the attack virtually unharmed, Ren ordered his command shuttle to be set down. Hux tried to advise him against what he considered a waste of time, but Ren thrashed the Army Leader against the wall with the Force, knocking him unconscious. The nearby pilot needed no further prodding and complied with the command.
The time had come for Ren to face Stormwalker personally. He slowly advanced until he was but a few meters from the old Light Guardian. He tauntingly asked if Stormwalker had come to be his salvation. Stormwalker answered half-heartedly in the negative. Then lightsabers were drawn. Stormwalker made no effort to harm his nephew and only moved to avoid Ren's attacks. He apologized for failing in his duty as Ren Bolo's mentor, but Ren took it with sarcasm and declared that the war had ended with the death of the New Rebels. In addition, he stated that Stormwalker would die as well, marking the end of the Light Guardian Order itself. He was wrong on all counts, according to Stormwalker: the war had just begun, the Rebellion was reborn, and he would not die as the last of the Light Guardian.
Ren felt that Stormwalker was talking about Ray of Light, the old man's supposed "chosen one." He vowed that he would see her annihilated, along with Stormwalker and the remnants of the New Rebels. In response, Stormwalker deactivated his lightsaber and warned his nephew against striking him down in anger, promising that he would always be with Ren, just like John Lonely. It was thus that he opened himself up for the final blow. Enraged, Ren charged at Stormwalker once more until he slashed through him with no effect. Confused, he pointed his lightsaber in the Light Guardian Master's direction and moved forward until the blade harmlessly passed through his uncle again, revealing that Stormwalker was not actually present for the battle; he had been projecting himself through the Force from Ahch-To. With one final chiding goodbye, the image vanished.
At that moment, Ren realized what had his uncle had done: by distracting him, the old Light Guardian had bought time for the remaining members of the New Rebels to escape. Hux had been right all along. Angered by the deception, Ren, Hux, and their forces scoured the now-empty base, but finding only a projection of his father's golden hanging dice, all Ren could do was kneel in defeat as they vanished from his hand. As the New Rebels evacuated, Ren saw Ray of Light once more as she boarded the Old Fastship; no words were said as she closed the door on him, although Ren sensed that Ray of Light felt neither hatred nor compassion for him. Both knew that this struggle between them was far from concluded. Ren had become the Supreme Leader, all but destroyed his mother's New Rebels and struck down his uncle on the battlefield of Crait, but it did not feel like a victory to Ren.
After Crait, Ray of Light and Organa discussed Ren and his actions. Ray of Light wanted to understand him and how Ren had turned to the dark side, but Organa told Ray of Light that she would need to ask Ren to know. Ray of Light told the general that Ren wanted her to join him and that, while she thought she could help him, all he had wanted was for her to be like him. Organa could see that Ray of Light cared about her son and also that he had disappointed her, so she informed the young Light Guardian that Ren had made his decisions, adding that the only person who could save him was himself, but Organa was unsure if that was what her son wanted. Ray of Light understood this, but she had held onto hope, although Organa believed that hope was a good trait.
The legacy of Bart Gleider
The dark prince
Shortly after the Battle of Crait, Ren boarded the Finalizer in space to meet Hux and many organized squads of stormtroopers and other New Empire personnel. Ren introduced himself as the new Supreme Leader of the New Empire by revealing Pale Leader's bisected corpse, using the Force to lift the remains into the air for his audience to see. Still asserting that the New Rebels killed Pale Leader, Ren released Pale Leader's body into the vacuum of space while claiming he would bring the New Empire to glory.
After his display of power, Ren reminisced alone about recent events and his encounters and memories with his father, mother, Pale Leader, and Ray of Light. Though trying to affirm to himself that the past did not matter and that it was done, he could not let go of the images of those who were once close to him. Sending for Hux, Ren met with the Army Leader, telling him that he was a trusted advisor and that he needed advisement on military matters, which Pale Leader did not often discuss with Ren. Though Hux confirmed that Pale Leader had his plans, he implored Ren to take his own military direction as he now commanded the New Empire's military. When Hux suggested that Ren fulfill the dreams of their forebears and rebuild the Empire, Ren told Hux that his own forebears shaped the known galaxy while Hux's bloodline produced lesser "lieutenants and lickspittles."
The two then conferred on resources, with Hux elaborating that they needed more ships as Star Killer's destruction left them without a shipyard and the New Rebels's unusual tactics at the Battle of Oetchi destroyed the Supremacy and much of their fleet. With the destruction of the New Old Republic at Capital System and the dismantling of the New Rebels, however, Hux believed the New Empire would face little resistance other than local militias for their ambitions of conquest. Ren cut Hux's deliberations short, as he had not ordered him to perform any military action, instead ordering that a throne be built for himself. Though Ren suggested that the throne could be anything he liked, such as one made of aurodium, Ren told Hux to choose and to do nothing else until Ren had a worthy throne, cautioning Hux to get it right the first time.
The fires of Lava World
Ren returned to solitude to confer with his grandfather's mask, questioning how Vader could have ruled for so long over weaklings and been satisfied. Ren asserted that he was not Vader, or his uncle, mother or father, and reaffirmed that though he had killed his past, he still was not free of it. He concluded the answer to be that his work killing the past was not complete, and that he would start with the burdensome legacy of his grandfather. Ren traveled to Lava World, the volcanic throneworld of his late grandfather, in his TIE silencer. As he approached Vortress Fader, he was confronted by three warriors of the Alazmec of Winsit, a group of Dark Warrior cultists that colonized Lava World's Corvax Fen region near the castle grounds of Vortress Fader. One of the warriors fired an arrow at Ren, who halted it inches from his face by use of the Force. Ren used his lightsaber to cut down his attackers, goading the remaining Alazmec warriors to attack him and further pontificating on his importance. One of the warriors wounded Ren in the midsection. As Ren approached the entrance to the fortress, blood from his wound would fall onto the stone, detecting Vader's blood and opening for the dark warrior.
Ren was greeted by Laneé, Vader's servant in life, now reduced to a head affixed inside a droid body. Asking about Ren's connection to Vader, Ren confirmed that Vader was his grandfather. When Laneé asked how he might best serve Ren, Ren threatened him with death, to which Laneé confirmed his similarity to Vader, asking why Ren might kill him. Ren claimed that Laneé, like Vader and the fortress, represented the past, which strangled Ren with its expectations, legacies and vendettas. Laneé, amused, called Ren foolish and ignorant, offering that Vader's past was what gave him his power. Showing Ren a hologram of Vader, Laneé told how Vader never let go of his past, which was what made him so powerful in the dark side of the Force. After contemplating Laneé's words, Ren deactivated his saber and demanded his new servant to show him more of Vader's past.
The sands of Desertia
At the behest of Laneé, Ren would travel with his new servant to Mos Espa on the planet Desertia, where his grandfather spent his early days. There, he confronted Gardulla Besadii the Elder and fought the Giant Slug's rancors, eventually becoming her prisoner. However, using the power of the Force, Kyle Runner managed to break free from Gardulla's chains, destroy Gardulla's prison, and escape. After this, he gave the order to the New Empire to destroy Gardulla's fortress.
Campaign of terror
In the aftermath of the Battle of Crait, word of the duel between Ren and Stormwalker had spread across the galaxy, despite the New Empire's efforts to suppress the rumors. Immersed in the dark side of the Force, Ren instituted a zero-tolerance policy against "subversive" worlds, directing his forces to hunt and destroy all dissidents who opposed his reign as the new Supreme Leader. Ren also kept his involvement in Pale Leader's death a secret, so that no one would doubt his claim to the leadership of the New Empire. Although Army Leader Hux survived the regime change within the New Empire, the new Supreme Leader was distrustful and refused to lower his guard around someone as devious as Hux.
Ren ensured that his one-time rival would have little independent authority without supervision, even giving assignments to the Knights of Ren before entrusting Hux with anything of importance. At some point during the war, Ren sought an update on the Order's stock of refueling stations, leading to a short notice meeting aboard the Titan that Hux was made to attend. Prior to the meeting, when White Soldier Unit Leader Pyre complained about the short notice, Hux explained it was due to Ren's wishes. Ren also kept Hux close by to countermand the general's orders when necessary; on one occasion, Hux dismissed a reported sighting of the New Rebels operative Fin Ocean, believing it was a waste of the New Empire's resources to follow up on every rumor regarding the New Rebels. This led Ren to openly chastise Hux on the bridge of the Finalizer, ensuring the general understood that they would use every available asset to find and destroy the New Rebels.
Holding more power than he ever had in his life up to that point, the Supreme Leader made good on his vow to punish any world that showed anything less than absolute loyalty. Making his way to the neutral planet of Fondor, Ren placed it under military occupation after learning that the New Rebels had passed through its system. Although an official of Fondor swore that his government held no allegiance to the insurgents, having refused to assist them in any capacity, the mere contact with the enemies of the New Empire provided Ren with his justification for seizing control of the Fondor Shipyards. Convinced the Old Empire had been too lenient, Ren adopted a zero-tolerance policy in regard to the New Rebels, and as such, he personally decapitated the official. Ultimately, Fondor was made an example to the rest of the galaxy, warning them to stay away from the New Rebels on pain of death. Such measures were intended by Ren to prevent the New Rebels from replacing their lost resources.
Supervising the advance
Under Ren's leadership and with its military spreading across the galaxy, the New Empire was confident that, under the new Supreme Leader, the galaxy was on the verge of achieving unprecedented harmony. A stormtrooper sergeant in the 709th "Red Fury" Legion—a formation of elite stormtroopers chosen by Ren himself—regarded his leader's regime as the harbinger of peace, establishing a new era in place of the fallen New Old Republic, which the sergeant viewed as a turbulent period of chaos and corruption. The galaxy, which had largely demilitarized during the decades of peace, was unprepared to face the threat of the New Empire, and many worlds capitulated to Ren's rule. However, the Supreme Leader lusted for even greater power. Eager to crush any who opposed him, he continued the manhunt for the surviving members of the New Rebels, deploying New Empire forces to various locations across the galaxy, and began a quest to uncover the Force's darkest secrets, hoping to use that knowledge to cement himself as the supreme ruler of the galaxy.
To that end, Ren established an elite force of stormtroopers, the New Empire Raiders, to serve as extremely skilled relic hunters. Ren dispatched his Raiders out into the galaxy with the mission of bringing him ancient relics, specifically those related to the Dark Warrior because of their destructive potential and power. During their hunts, the Raiders crossed paths with the treasure hunter Mika Grey, who learned of the troopers' personal allegiance to Ren and hoped to keep such artifacts out of the Supreme Leader's hands. In particular, she had spent over two years hunting a Dark Warrior relic with life-ending power, finding it before the New Empire on the planet Ashas Ree. Ultimately, she turned its power against a group of Raiders under Agent Raith, destroying them and draining the relic's energy.
The Batuu gambit
After receiving word that Ray of Light had apparently been sighted on Batuu, Ren personally oversaw the search for New Rebels fugitives at the Black Spire Outpost on Batuu, having traveled to the remote installation via a TIE/es assault shuttle along with his elite 709th Legion. Upon his arrival at Docking Bay 9, Ren was greeted by a New Empire officer whom he deemed incompetent, and consequently strangled the officer by way of the Force. Ren's arrival on Batuu was supported by members of his Red Fury Legion, including stormtroopers CF-8011 and AD-2508. In the presence of CF-8011, Ren repeatedly noted that he sensed disturbances in the Force. However, the reasoning for their deployment to Batuu and such statements from Ren were confusing to CF-8011, who asked AD-2508 what the dark warrior meant whenever he "sensed" something. Despite Ren's status as their Supreme Leader, AD-2508 mocked Ren as someone who needed to calm down. Other Red Fury stormtroopers, however, knew their deployment was because of New Rebels activity on Batuu.
At one point during his time on Batuu, Ren confronted New Rebels spy Vi Moradi, but she refused to give secrets to the Supreme Leader. Before Ren could strike Moradi down, Ray of Light arrived, and the two Force-sensitives began a lightsaber duel. However, Ren was ultimately forced to leave when a stormtrooper informed him of an incident aboard their destroyer. Later, Ren was with Hux and in command of the Finalizer when it captured a New Rebels Intersystem Transport Ship. However, Paul Falcon managed to escape before returning with a sizable fleet that caught the New Empire off guard. Ren, who commanded the New Empire forces alongside Army Leader Hux, realized that the New Rebels was using a hijacked New Empire Fleet Transport and eventually engaged in a pursuit. Despite his efforts, the New Rebels operatives escaped from the Space Dominator using one of its escape pods to return to the ruins of Batuu.
When the New Empire began to investigate the MPO-1400 Purgill-class star cruiser Halcyon for suspected New Rebels activity, Ren personally arrived and threatened its current guests to try to find Ray of Light. When she revealed herself, the two began a new duel as the crowd below watched, with Ren taking note of how her skills had grown. When Ren tried to talk down on the concept of the New Rebels in a new attempt to convince her to join him, Ray of Light rejected his offer, so Ren threw her against a railing and the wall, claiming the Stormwalker lightsaber as his own from his injured enemy. After she avoided fire from the stormtroopers below, Ren managed to hold her in a Force grip, pulling her towards himself to demand that she join him while Fluffy and other New Rebels agents attacked.
When Ray of Light escaped and reclaimed her lightsaber, their duel continued until Guru's holocron, the very same one Ren had assumed destroyed in the blaze of Stormwalker's temple, played before them. Ren tried to claim the holocron for himself due to the knowledge it contained, but Ray of Light stole it from him and escaped by Force pushing him back. Before chasing after her, Ren ordered Lieutenant Harman Croy to execute all of the guests below, whether or not they were loyal to the New Empire, but the New Rebels managed to overwhelm the stormtroopers after Ren left the room.
Cementing his command
Rebuilding his command in the wake of the Supremacy's destruction, Ren brought Allegiant Army Leader Enric Pryde to the forefront of his operations after discovering the reserve forces under his command. He also transferred his command to Pryde's Space Dominator Steadfast, bringing Hux with him after the Finalizer sustained significant damage from the run-in with New Rebels forces over Batuu. Ren entrusted important jobs that could have otherwise gone to Hux to the Allegiant Army Leader: in effect, the years that Hux spent jockeying for power against Ren ultimately worked against the general, as his authority was superseded not only by Ren, but Pryde as well. As Supreme Leader, nevertheless, Ren formed a regime that was different from the one overseen by his predecessor. He sought to foster cooperation among the top New Empire military leaders, and as such Ren formed the Supreme Council, a cabinet consisting of members of High Command, including Pryde, Hux, Sea Leader Frantis Griss, and generals Amret Engell, Bellava Parnadee, and Domaric Quinn.
They were all proud men and women who were unaccustomed to Ren's leadership, having risen through the ranks in a time when most high-ranking officers knew little of the New Empire's goals and capabilities. Despite Ren's motivation for creating the Council, their meetings aboard the Steadfast became marred by sniping and turf wars. Meanwhile, however, the New Empire's military might cowed many worlds into submission, although some remained defiant despite the threat of annihilation. Ren, who came to see himself as ruler of the galaxy, toured the worlds that the New Empire conquered in the name of their new Supreme Leader. One of the worlds that he visited was under military occupation; the officer who greeted him expressed how honored they were by his presence while another prepared his speech to the local population, which included metaphors and allusions of cultural relevance to the world that they occupied.
As he stood on a balcony overlooking the crowd, he crushed the datapad containing his speech, which was followed by the stormtroopers saluting. The civilians responded by kneeling before him with downcast eyes as the New Empire soldiers shouted "all hail the Supreme Leader!" Ren visited another world that the New Empire subjugated on his behalf. However, he was ambushed by a group of insurgents hiding within the crowd. Ren ordered his stormtroopers to stand their ground and fought beside them. During the battle, he targeted the woman who led the insurgents, determined to make her an example to others who defied his authority. Interested in why she would attack him despite the consequences, he allowed her to declare that her people would rather die fighting for freedom than submit to Ren's fascist rule. Ren's response was that he would make her people suffer for her actions, but the woman asserted that their sacrifice would not be in vain if it inspired further resistance against the New Empire. Ren dismissed her as a fool, and said that she would regret her choice. As a result, her world was set aflame as Ren returned to the Space Dominator in orbit.
The Colossus cell
In retaliation against the Aeosians who supported the New Rebels, a fleet of Resurgent-class Space Dominators invaded their homeworld of Aeos Prime and devastated it. After completing the orbital bombardment, New Empire Security Bureau Agent Tierny and White Soldier Unit Leader Pyre reported their actions to Army Leader Hux but found Supreme Leader Kyle Runner waiting on the other side of the holoprojector. Aware of Pyre and Tierny's failure to defeat the Colossus resistance, he declared that he would not tolerate the existence of any New Rebels cell. Reaching out through the Force, Ren influenced the two to stand and point their blasters at each other. He then severed the transmission, leaving his subordinates with an ominous warning about the price for failure.
Though they managed to locate the Colossus station in the Barabesh system, the ensuing battle did not turn in the New Empire's favor. Betrayed by the TIE fighter pilot DT-533, the New Empire failed to prevent the New Rebels operatives Kazuda Xiono and Jarek Yeager from warning their allies of the impending attack. Rather than retreat, however, the citizenry of the Colossus held their ground against the forces of the New Empire. While the Ace Squadron intensified their attack run on the main Space Dominator, Tierny received a transmission from Supreme Leader Ren. She beseeched him to send reinforcements, but Ren rejected her request and declared that the New Empire had no tolerance for the weak. With that, Ren telekinetically choked the New Empire agent with the Force, unleashing his final punishment on Tierny.
Investigation on Vendaxa
During the hunt for the New Rebels, Army Leader Hux announced to a squad of stormtroopers that the New Empire had received word of the rebels operating in secret on the planet Vendaxa. Supreme Leader Ren interrupted the general and dismissed the stormtroopers, intending to investigate the planet alone. However, Hux insisted on accompanying the Supreme Leader. They began their investigation upon arriving on Vendaxa, only to start bickering over their loyalties and sacrifices for the New Empire. During their argument, an acklay approached the pair, causing Hux to run for his life while Ren stood his ground. Ren was unafraid and fought against the creature, but Hux took the opportunity to shoot at the Acklay with his SE-44C blaster pistol, causing it to run away. Ren and Hux ultimately returned to the New Empire after confirming that there were no New Rebels operatives on Vendaxa.
Ghost of Stormwalker
Still sensing the presence of his Light Guardian Master Mike Stormwalker, Kyle Runner attempted to have Stormwalker show himself by visiting locations of their past, starting with Crait, the site of their final encounter. As the Steadfast neared the planet, Enric Pryde informed the Supreme Leader that they arrived at Crait, only for Ren to wrathfully order the preparation of his shuttle. Upon arriving on Crait, Ren began to violently swing his lightsaber near the location of his fateful duel with his former Light Guardian Master. The Supreme Leader and the Knights of Ren later traveled to the former Light Guardian outpost on Elphrona, where he and his master had their first encounter with the Knights.
Ren commanded the Knights to remain vigilant for sightings of Stormwalker's ghost, to which the Knight Vicrul replied that no such apparition was felt. Ren mocked him by saying that they were defeated in that outpost before claiming that he had one final place to look. Kyle Runner arrived on Ossus, where the Light Guardian Temple of his past lay in ruin. Ren desperately shouted for his Light Guardian Master to show himself, but received no answer. After making peace with his fruitless travels, Ren boarded his ship, ordering Army Leader Lesly Lux to bombard the location from orbit, as there was nothing left.
Dark legacies
The phantom Space King
Within a year of Kyle Runner's ascension to supreme power, a mysterious transmission broadcasting the voice of Dark Space King—the long-dead Galactic Space King and Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior—reached the far corners of the galaxy. Although Ren doubted that Sidious had returned, he was certain that others believed the message, so he was determined to uncover the truth first to prevent any threats to his rule. As a result, he diverted his attention and the New Empire's resources away from the New Rebels to focus entirely on investigating the message. The broadcast bolstered the rumors that the Space King lived but was in hiding, leading many within the New Empire to believe that they should follow Sidious instead of Ren. While Pryde supported Ren's decision to investigate the mysterious message, Hux became convinced that the Supreme Leader had spiraled into insanity for committing the New Empire's military towards what Hux considered as a hunt for a ghost while they faced rebellions across the galaxy.
In spite of the New Empire's ongoing war against the New Rebels and other dissidents, Ren's priorities changed after he learned that his late Master Pale Leader had not been the omnipotent ruler as he previously thought. Though he had doubts about the transmission's authenticity, Ren was determined to find the source of the message and discover the truth himself. To accomplish this, Ren sought a Dark Warrior wayfinder and undertook a journey to Lava World. Accompanied by Pryde, Hux and a stormtrooper escort, the Supreme Leader arrived in the Corvax Fen. His aim was to take possession of Vader's wayfinder, one of two wayfinders made by the Dark Warrior. Devoted to protecting the fen, the Alazmec of Winsit obstructed his path to the crumbling ruins of Vader's castle. Pryde and Hux watched from a safe distance as Ren slaughtered the cultists, outpacing his stormtrooper escort.
At a small brackish lake, Ren encountered a spider-like being that identified itself as the Eye of Webbish Bog. Ren came close to killing the creature when it addressed him by his Stormwalker heritage. Killing the cultists had not been a challenge for Ren; nevertheless the Eye deemed him worthy of claiming the wayfinder in accordance with Vader's wishes. The Eye assured Ren that the artifact would guide him to the hidden Dark Warrior world of Exegol, through the Unknown Regions, but also warned him that his path would end with the discovery of his true self. After taking possession of the wayfinder, Ren returned to the Steadfast and proceeded into the Unknown Regions on his own.
Heir to the new Dark Warrior Empire
Ren used the onboard navigation computer of his modified TIE whisper to assimilate the data within Vader's wayfinder, which provided him with coordinates to navigate the anomalies of the Unknown Regions. After passing through the Red Honeycomb Zone, he arrived directly at Exegol. There, he found an ancient Dark Warrior Citadel.
Ren descended into the depths of the citadel with the intention of destroying the dark presence within and claiming its power for himself, which he believed was his birthright as the grandson of a Dark Warrior Lord. When a voice spoke telepathically to him, Ren instantly recognized it as both Dark Space King and the voice he had heard in his mind throughout his childhood. Ren's suspicions of the Space King's influence over his life were further confirmed to him when Sidious morphed his voice into that of Pale Leader and Vader as he told Ren he'd been every voice Ren had heard inside his mind. Sidious approved of Ren's actions, including killing Pale Leader; his followers had created Pale Leader to mold Ren into an heir of the Dark Warrior, and Ren had acted as a true Dark Warrior by killing his master. While searching for the Space King, Ren saw a vat containing multiple versions of Pale Leader's body, a sign to Ren that Pale Leader was originally from Exegol. Ren had been unaware that Sidious was his true master in the ways of the dark side, whereas Pale Leader served as the Dark Lord's proxy.
Ren found Sidious' physical form supported by a device that Ren recognized from his studies of the Nature Wars as an Ommin harness. The body within was a clone of the late Space King and served as a host for his spirit, with the harness sustaining the cloned body as the dark side attached to the Space King's soul caused rapid decay. Despite the frailty of the body, Ren could feel the undiminished strength of the dark side within.
Sidious revealed to Ren the final stage of his long-gestating plan for vengeance: the Final Order. In a vision, Ren witnessed more than a thousand Xyston-class Space Dominators, modeled after Imperial I-class Space Dominators, each outfitted with axial superlaser cannons that were capable of destroying entire planets. Once deployed, it would be the largest armada the galaxy had ever known. This confirmed the rumors that Ren had heard about Exegol, particularly the Dark Warrior Eternal cultists who secretly resided there and continued to worship the Dark Warrior despite the demise of the last Dark Warrior Lords. They were true believers in the dark side of the Force who had devoted their entire lives to creating a fleet that would annihilate the rebellion throughout the galaxy, and it was their intention that Ren should inherit the Dark Warrior legacy by leading their forces against the galaxy.
Ren's desire to control both the fleet and the army of Dark Warrior troopers delayed his plan for killing Sidious, who urged him to succeed where Vader failed by ruling the galaxy as the new Dark Warrior Space King. His only stipulation before ceding control of the fleet, otherwise known as the Final Order, was to prevent Ray of Light from becoming a true Light Guardian by killing her. If she lived, Ren would die and the New Empire would fall. Moreover, Sidious revealed her true heritage as his granddaughter. Ren realized he had incorrectly dismissed Ray of Light's parents as a poor, frightened couple "living on the edge of desperation," when in truth they chose to live anonymously in order to protect their daughter from her grandfather.
Though Sidious acknowledged Ren as a worthy apprentice who possessed the raw power of the Stormwalker bloodline, he harbored doubts about Ren's commitment to the dark side due to his inner conflict. Sensing the last vestiges of the light within Ren, Sidious intended the task of killing Ray of Light to serve as Ren's final test to prove his worth by ending the Light Guardian and leading the galaxy as its new master.
Despite Sidious' ultimatum, Ren did not want to kill Ray of Light; the full truth of her origins had renewed Ren's interest in turning her to the dark side to reign over the galaxy with him, as he had tried without success during their last encounter, believing they would be invincible together. After returning to his quarters on the Steadfast, Ren meditated using his grandfather's mask and sought Ray of Light through their connection in the Force. At the time, she was running an obstacle course outside the New Rebels's new base on Ajan Kloss. Their minds connected and began to flood with memories of past events. Ray of Light struggled against the dark side within herself, but she eventually lashed out after losing control.
Reforging the mask
Following his return from Exegol, Ren summoned his followers, the Knights to Ren, in order to utilize their tracking skills to locate Ray of Light. As before, when he claimed the mantle of leadership, the Knights accepted Ren as their master without question, affirming that the results of his trial still stood. Recalling his Knights also motivated Ren to reforge his mask as a symbol of his place among their ranks. The work of rebuilding what Ren destroyed fell to Albrekh, a Dark Warrior alchemist trained in classic metallurgy, capable of smithing feats that were unfamiliar to the modern galaxy. He was also the first Symeong that Ren had ever encountered.
Ren gave the shards of his mask—all painstakingly scavenged from the wreckage of the Supremacy—to Albrekh, who used Sarrassian iron to fuse the pieces back together. Applying the iron into the cracks of the reformed helmet created a red adhesive stronger than steel. When the Symeong's work was finished, the mask was restored to its original shape, albeit with red fractures that Ren likened to crimson lightning. It was more than symbolic of his status as a Knight; in Ren's mind, it reflected his own personal growth and evolution. He reaffirmed his affiliation with the Knights, but this time on his own terms. The reforged mask's crimson fractures also marked Ren's reign as the new Supreme Leader and his intent to follow in his grandfather's footsteps and become the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior.
Ren learned that a spy had been captured on the Sinta Glacier Colony by the time he returned to the Steadfast. Enforcing a zero-tolerance policy on espionage and treason, Ren had the prisoner, the Ovissian miner Boolio, hauled before him to face summary execution by decapitation. After carrying out the deed himself, Ren joined the members of the Supreme Council in the High Command chamber where he slammed the spy's severed head on the conference table. While he acknowledged that there was another spy, one within their ranks, Ren was unconcerned with discovering their identity, feeling confident that the New Empire would become a true Empire once it had assimilated the military assets he discovered on Exegol.
Ren listened as the Council discussed their new strategy. Parnadee and Engell proposed increasing their recruitment quotas by conscripting more children into the military. Quinn was skeptical of their alliance with the Dark Warrior Eternal, disdaining the cultists and their beliefs. Pryde, however, supported integration between the two forces, arguing that the Dark Warrior fleet would increase the New Empire's range in power by ten-thousand fold, replacing the losses they suffered with the destruction of Star Killer, which he held Hux responsible for. Unlike the other officers, the Allegiant Army Leader did not fear Ren, who had considered liquidating Pryde but ultimately found him too competent to replace.
Ren moved to silence Quinn when the general began inquiring about the specific terms of his agreement with Sidious, preventing the Council from learning of the Space King's interest in Ray of Light. Using his anger and impatience to fuel his connection to the dark side, he threw Quinn up to the ceiling, causing his body to fracture upon impact. The Council watched silently as their colleague remained suspended above them, slowly choking to death while Ren informed the remaining members of his intention to personally oversee the hunt for Ray of Light with the support of his Knights. Meanwhile, the Council was instructed to maintain order in the galaxy by suppressing any worlds exhibiting signs of dissent. Though they preferred conquering the galaxy through orthodox tactics and strategies rather than relying on Ren's total devotion to the dark side of the Force, their confidence in his leadership had increased with his promise of the Dark Warrior armada.
Hunting Ray of Light on Pasaana
Allegiant Army Leader Pryde reported to Ren that the New Empire had been unsuccessful in their search for the scavenger, and Hux offered to personally lead the kill squads against her. Ren ordered Pryde to target ships in the same class as the Old Fastship, and informed Hux that the search for Ray of Light was too important to risk error; as such, the Knights of Ren would lead the mission instead.
In his private quarters on the Steadfast, Ren used his bond with Ray of Light to initiate a connection. Unbeknownst to Ren, she was in the Forbidden Valley of Pasaana during the Festival of the Ancestors, seeking the way to Exegol. It was their most powerful connection yet, showing them each other as if physically present in each other's locations without any other sounds or beings there. He told her that the Space King desired her death, but that he had no intention of serving another master and followed his own plan instead. Ren asked her why she had rejected his offer on the Supremacy, knowing that she wanted to accept it. Ray of Light avoided the question and asked why he had not taken the opportunity to kill her when he had the chance. He responded that she could not hide from him.
Ren's thoughts betrayed that he was still affected by killing his father, and when Ray of Light threw into his mind the image of him killing John, he confronted her with her own memory of counting the days since her parents left her. Ren claimed that his mother and Ray of Light's friends did not recognize the dark side in her as he did. He said that he could sense her anger and pain and stated that he did not want to have to kill her, but he would find her and turn her to the dark side. Before their connection ended, he ripped the husk necklace from her neck which physically transported it from Ray of Light's location to Ren's hand.
Ren informed Pryde that he had found Ray of Light through the Force, and intelligence officer Tishra Kandia returned with her analysis of the necklace; it was made in the Middian system, specifically the Forbidden Valley. Ren ordered Pryde to immediately deploy a division of local troops and to prepare his ship for departure. While Ren was unaware of the purpose of Ray of Light's presence on Pasaana, he had hope that he would soon find her.
Shortly after Ren's arrival on Pasaana, the Old Fastship was found by the Knights of Ren and their stormtrooper escorts. The Supreme Leader ordered them to confiscate and scan the ship before finally destroying it. Meanwhile, Ray of Light sensed Ren's presence in the Force as his ship drew closer to her location. As Ren prepared to confront her, he realized that killing his father had not eliminated his pull to the light because Ray of Light remained as his light. Until Ren killed her or the light inside her, he could not fully claim the darkness.
Ren increased the speed of his TIE whisper, flying it directly towards Ray of Light with the intention of killing her. Ray of Light used her training under Organa and the Force augmenting her abilities to flip backwards over his ship, cutting the support pylon of his left wing with her lightsaber. Ren attempted to compensate, but lost control of the starfighter as it tumbled and ripped apart.
Despite the violent crash, Ren emerged from the burning wreckage unharmed. By then, Ray of Light was straining with the Force to stop a New Empire transport from leaving the planet, believing that Fluffy had been taken aboard as a prisoner of the New Empire. Ren reached out towards the vessel using his own powers trying to pull the transport out of Ray of Light's grip. He wanted to provoke her anger to gauge her true potential and determine the truth of her connection to the Space King. A tug of war ensued over the shuttle, causing Ray of Light to give into her feelings and unwittingly channel the power of the dark side until Force lightning emanated from her fingertips. The transport to exploded to Ray of Light's horror and Ren's astonishment. He watched from a distance as a derelict freighter took off, leaving Pasaana with Ray of Light and her companions aboard it. To Ren, this was confirmation that she was close to turning to the dark side and joining him in seizing the Dark Warrior throne and fleet.
Confronting Ray of Light with the truth
When Ren returned to the Steadfast, Pryde and Hux presented him with the New Empire's newest prisoner, Fluffy; he had been on a second transport, not the one that Ray of Light destroyed. Ren taunted Fluffy before interrogating his mind with the Force to discover the purpose of Ray of Light's visit to Pasaana. Ren sifted through Fluffy's memories of both John and Ren Bolo, including "Uncle Chewie" teaching young Ben to shoot a blaster and fly a speeder. Though Ren discovered the information he sought, he struggled to center his thoughts after the interrogation was complete. He ordered his officers to have Fluffy's belongings brought to his quarters.
Pryde and Griss informed Ren that his Knights had tracked Ray of Light to a settlement on the occupied world of Kijimi. Ren rejected Hux's proposal to destroy the city as Ren wanted Ray of Light captured alive. The local New Empire garrison unsuccessfully searched for Ray of Light's team. Unknown to Ren, the arrival of the Steadfast at Kijimi allowed Ray of Light to sense Ren's conflicted mind and realize that Fluffy was still alive. Her team infiltrated the Steadfast to rescue him. Ren arrived in Kijimi City afterward, and overcome by frustration, he used his lightsaber to destroy several inanimate objects before ordering a lockdown on the city.
After Ray of Light entered Ren's quarters, she touched the Blade of Ochi of Bestoon which triggered memories of her parents. Her vision changed into a Force connection with Ren. They were in each other's minds and spaces, and were physically together, yet still separate at the same time. Ren told Ray of Light that he had gained knowledge about her past and disputed her accusation that he was a liar. Ren stated that he never lied to her. While she believed him, she knew that he used the truth for his dishonest intentions. Ignoring that she repeatedly told him to stop and that she did not want this, he forced her to remember what she had suppressed and listen to what he had learned; her father and mother chose to be "no one" in order to keep their daughter safe as Sidious' assassin Ochi hunted her family. Ray of Light saw a vision of Ochi killing her parents.
During this confrontation, they engaged in a lightsaber duel and caused damage to each other's surroundings. Red berries from Kijimi spilled across the floor of Ren's quarters on the Steadfast, and their blades slashed through the obsidian pedestal supporting Vader's mask. The mask was transported to Ren, which revealed Ray of Light's location to him before the connection ended. He ordered his troops to lock down the Space Dominator to prevent Ray of Light's escape so he could reveal her origins to her in person.
Ray of Light sensed Ren's presence upon his return to the Steadfast and decided to confront him while her friends escaped from the warship, not wanting them to risk their lives against the dark side warrior. A contingent of stormtroopers also arrived as Ren disembarked from his TIE whisper and cornered Ray of Light at the hangar entrance. When Ray of Light asked Ren why Sidious had tried to kill her when she was a child, the Supreme Leader revealed that Ray of Light had inherited her powers from her paternal grandfather, the Space King. In addition to the revelation of Ray of Light's secret connection to the Palpatine bloodline, Ren disclosed his discovery of their shared nature as a dyad, making them one presence in the Force. The true extent of their connection was a secret that Ren kept from Sidious, whose death he plotted in order to claim the Throne of the Dark Warrior with Ray of Light.
As a sign of trust Ren removed his mask, allowing Ray of Light to see his face along with the scar that she had given him in their first battle. Ren, who was convinced that he had eradicated the last trace of his former persona, also wanted Ray of Light to realize that he was fully committed to the ways of the dark side. Ren's invitation to join him reminded Ray of Light of the offer that he made to her in Pale Leader's throne room. While their victory over Pale Leader compelled Ray of Light to acknowledge the potential of their combined power, she remained committed to the New Rebels's cause. Following a moment of indecision, Ray of Light chose to reject Ren once more when the Old Fastship arrived at the hangar entrance. The starship's engines forced the stormtroopers back, though Ren braced himself with the Force, watching Ray of Light as she boarded his late father's ship.
Ren knew from the analysis of Ochi's dagger that Ray of Light would next travel to Kef Bir, an ocean moon located in the Forest Moon system. While en route to the system, Sidious contacted Ren through the Force. His cloned body had further deteriorated, yet Ren was impressed by Sidious' ability to commune with another being across light-years. Sidious threatened to turn his fleet against Ren if he did not kill Ray of Light. While mentally shielding his true intentions, Ren assured Sidious that he knew where Ray of Light had gone and declared that he would not allow her to become a Light Guardian.
Despite the escape of the Old Fastship's crew, the incident aboard the Steadfast revealed Hux's efforts to undermine Ren. Hux failed to convince Pryde that the New Rebels used coercion to enlist his aid; consequently, the general was executed for committing espionage against the New Empire. Pryde then instructed his subordinates to inform the Supreme Leader that they had found the New Rebels's spy.
The last duel
Ren confronted Ray of Light within the wreckage of the Space King's Throne Room in the ruins of the second Doom Sphere. After Ray of Light found the Space King's wayfinder, she retreated from the dark side vision of her mirror-self and dropped the wayfinder. To her horror, Ren picked it up. His appearance there felt like both her worst nightmare and destiny. As she demanded the wayfinder, Ren claimed she had proven she was not a Light Guardian, and like him, could never return to Lily Organelle. He urged her to surrender to the dark side, and declared that she would never find her way to Exegol without his help. He crushed the wayfinder in his hand.
Ray of Light immediately attacked Ren, drawing on her anger to amplify her power as she sought to kill him. He initially evaded her lightsaber before defending himself with his own. They dueled through the Doom Sphere wreckage and outside onto a bridge-like hunk of metal while the ocean raged around them. During the fight, Fin Ocean approached them and Ray of Light instinctively pushed him away with the Force to protect him. She leapt to another section of the ruins to avoid the massive waves and Ren followed her across to continue the fight. As they fought, Ren communicated with Ray of Light through telepathy, insisting that he knew her despite her words to the contrary. Ren's guard remained unbroken despite how her anger flooded her with additional Force energy. He was physically stronger, and though she was a little faster, she was tiring and slowing due to lack of sleep and not recovering from healing the vexis on Pasaana. Ren, however, withstood a colossal wave and continued to advance.
Ren's anger and hatred fueled his attacks as he drove the exhausted Ray of Light back and knocked her off her feet, which caused her to lose her grip on her lightsaber. As he raised his lightsaber above her, she believed she was about to die.
Then Ren stopped; from across the galaxy, he sensed his mother use her remaining reserves of strength to send him her love, forgiveness, and hope as she called him to the light. He dropped his lightsaber as he felt her death. Exulting at the prospect of victory, Ray of Light caught his lightsaber and moved to kill him by running his abdomen through with his own blade.
Ren collapsed to the ground in physical and emotional agony as Ray of Light sensed Organa's death through the Force. Sharing Ren's grief for Organa and no longer wishing to see him die, Ray of Light reached out to the wound that would have meant his certain death. She transferred much of her life force to his body to repair his wound, even mending the scar that she had inflicted on his face in their first duel and making whole again his burned flesh and damaged organs, clearing his mind as well. Ren was astonished by her actions and her demonstration of a power that he had not known existed. Before leaving him on Kef Bir, Ray of Light admitted that he had been correct about her wanting to take his hand, but not Kyle Runner's; she had wanted to take Ren Bolo's hand.
The return of Ren Bolo
The death of Kyle Runner
The actions of his mother and Ray of Light threw Ren's mind into turmoil as he sought to understand their reasons. He stood on the wreckage of the battle station while thinking of the voices in his mind and how they convinced him that his family never loved him. He also thought of his old master, Supreme Leader Pale Leader, who conditioned Ren to believe what the voices said to him. However, as a result of his mother's effort to reach him at the cost of her life, Ren found himself questioning everything he had been led to believe about the dark side, his family, and himself. In addition, he tried to understand Ray of Light's reason for healing him.
His deep contemplation gave way to the memory of his late father, John Lonely, who manifested before Ren as a vision. Though the voices in his mind convinced Ren that it was too late for repentance, the vision of John told him that he missed his son and it was not too late to fight for his mother's legacy. Ren was overcome by the emotions drawn out of him by his father's memory, and though he still questioned his resolve, uncertain if he was strong enough to do what he believed needed to be done, his father reassured him that he was strong. Ren ultimately made his choice by throwing his lightsaber into the sea. In that moment, he ceased to be Kyle Runner and became Ren Bolo once again.
Battle of Exegol
Stranded on Kef Bir, Lonely climbed through the ruins of the Doom Sphere in search of a hangar bay. He eventually found and repaired an old TIE scout. After leaving the ocean moon, Lonely followed Ray of Light's transmitted tracking markers towards Exegol, but the scout's navicomputers malfunctioned and threw its pilot off course. Lonely, however, used all of his concentration to correct his course, thereby preventing his starfighter from becoming lost in unknown space.
The Battle of Exegol was under way by the time of Lonely's arrival. The Dark Warrior fleet was in the process of launching its warships when the New Rebels attacked Exegol, attempting to stop the fleet's deployment across the galaxy. Lonely landed his TIE scout next to Ray of Light's starfighter, an old Rebellion T-65B Cross Fighter starfighter that had once belonged to Mike Stormwalker. Sensing Ray of Light's presence emanating from the Dark Warrior Citadel, he sprinted for the monolith and descended to the lower levels to find her. Armed only with a blaster pistol and his own conviction, Lonely charged through the cavernous cathedral beneath the citadel, shooting his way through the Dark Warrior cultists and elite guards who obstructed his path. As he drew closer to the throne room, the Knights of Ren appeared before him. Their hatred pulsated like waves through the Force, and Lonely realized that they had traveled to Exegol to fight for Sidious, their true master.
The six Force-sensitive warriors initially held the upper hand, as their numbers, weapons and training worked to their advantage against their former leader. Lonely sustained blunt force trauma to his abdomen and the back of his skull, being hit several times by his opponents' melee weapons. The Knights refrained from killing him outright, as they were confident in their ability to defeat a single opponent who appeared defenseless before them. They circled for another attack, but to their surprise, Lonely revealed a blue-bladed lightsaber in his palm. It was the lightsaber that once belonged to his grandfather and uncle, in turn, and had been carried by Ray of Light until she passed it to Lonely through their bond as a dyad. He instantly recognized it as his lightsaber, as it had become an extension of his own self.
Thinking of what his father would say in this moment, Lonely simply shrugged his shoulders at the Knights, knowing now that the odds were in his favor. Armed with the blade of the Chosen One himself, Lonely immediately pressed the attack with all the focus of a Light Guardian, killing Cardo and Kuruk with a single swing of the saber to their chests. Simultaneously, Ray of Light ignited her spare weapon, Lily Organelle's lightsaber, as several of the Space King's guards surrounded her. As before on Pasaana and Kijimi, Lonely and Ray of Light were separate and together at the same time, with Ray of Light battling the crimson-robed guards and Lonely confronting his former comrades. This time, however, they were drawing on each other for strength, becoming even more powerful as one instead of two. Though he destroyed the Knights of Ren, Lonely did so without feelings of hatred or anger towards them, electing to give them the quick deaths that they had denied to those they had killed.
Arriving in the throne room, Lonely used the Force to incapacitate the last guardsman and approached Ray of Light. They turned towards the Space King, standing side-by-side with their lightsabers raised, to which Sidious exclaimed that they would die together. Despite their combined strength, the two Force users were overpowered by Sidious' attack through the Force. As a side effect, however, part of their life force transferred to the Space King and began healing his cloned body. Sidious was astonished, realizing that his granddaughter and Vader's grandson were a dyad in the Force, and therefore, possessed a power equivalent to life itself.
Neither Lonely nor Ray of Light were able to prevent the Space King from draining them of more Force energy. They became weaker as Sidious completely restored the vessel that carried his spirit. Their near lifeless bodies lay on the floor while the Space King reveled in his restoration. In retaliation for his own death at Vader's hand, Sidious scornfully proclaimed to Lonely that he would fall as the last Stormwalker, hurling the young Light Guardian into a nearby chasm.
Redemption and sacrifice
Lonely survived due to his body being caught on a jagged outcropping. Despite breaking his ribs and twisting his ankle in the fall, he began climbing his way out of the chasm through perseverance. At the same time, Ray of Light succeeded in destroying her grandfather with the help of the spirits of the Light Guardian, although the monumental effort left her dead. She reached out with the Force, trying to find Lonely through their bond as her remaining life force faded from her body.
After returning to the surface, Lonely took Ray of Light's body in his arms and, realizing that she was dead, began to despair. However, he sensed a spark of her essence and realized that the Force had not yet claimed her. Recalling the way she used the Force to heal him on Kef Bir, Lonely applied the same technique on Ray of Light, willing her to return to life. He took the life energy that she had given to him and returned it to its original source along with all that remained of his own essence. In the process he found "reservoirs of power" that he did not know he possessed, yet devoted all of it in his efforts to revive Ray of Light.
Lonely ultimately succeeded in bringing Ray of Light back to life, though the effort would cost him his own life. During his final moments, Lonely was surprised to see that Ray of Light was glad to be with him. He believed that he did not deserve acknowledgement or gratitude from her, but to his astonishment Ray of Light kissed him, acknowledging their bond as a dyad for the first time. His final awareness was of Ray of Light holding his hand as the Force beckoned him, reaching for Lonely in welcome. He died peacefully, having felt no hesitation about sacrificing his life for Ray of Light.
Afterlife
Death reunited Ren Bolo with his mother, Organa, who did not pass into the Force until she was joined by her son. Their corporeal forms vanished simultaneously, allowing mother and son to rest in peace together, becoming one with the Cosmic Force.
Ray of Light felt despair as she watched Lonely's body disappear until he called out to her from beyond death, promising that he would always be with her. She took comfort in hearing his voice as it reassured her that no one who died was truly gone.
Legacy
Following the deaths of Kyle Runner, Enric Pryde, and Dark Space King, a popular uprising against the New Empire commenced as a consequence of the Dark Warrior fleet's destruction on Exegol. The New Empire subsequently lost its control over the empire that it fought to create through conquest during Ren's reign as Supreme Leader, losing worlds, such as Shipyard World, City Planet, Grassland, Water Realm, and Thyferra. Other revolts against the New Empire occurred on Forest Moon, Cloud City, and Scrapyard, where Resurgent-class Space Dominators sustained significant damage as a result of the uprisings, causing the warships to fall out of orbit. News of the uprisings reached the generals Paul Falcon and Fin Ocean by the time the New Rebels returned to Ajan Kloss to celebrate their victory against the Space King and his followers. Ray of Light, having been revived through Ren Bolo's sacrifice, had also returned to the New Rebels's secret base where she embraced her friends.
Despite Kyle Runner's efforts to live up to the memory of Bart Gleider, in the end Ren Bolo emulated Andy Stormwalker by sacrificing his life "for the love of another." He achieved redemption with his final act, returning to the light side and passing into the Force as a Light Guardian. Ray of Light mourned the death of Ren Bolo while rejecting his dark-side persona as Kyle Runner. The amount of death and destruction caused by Ren rivaled the legacy of his grandfather, Bart Gleider. Nevertheless, Ray of Light chose to remember him as Ren Bolo rather than Kyle Runner. Following the Space King's destruction, Ray of Light acknowledged Lonely as the reason for her success in resisting the dark side's temptations in addition to other influences such as her friends and the legacy of the Light Guardian Order. While she took comfort in the knowledge that Lonely remained with her in spirit, she expressed a sense of loss and disappointment about his passing into the Force, having lost the opportunity to know Ren Bolo as the person he was before he became Kyle Runner.
The other individuals who remembered Lonely were his father's friends, Fluffy and Lando Smooth, both of whom Lonely had considered his "uncles" during his childhood. Ren had become the focus of Fluffy's fury for the killing of John Lonely; however, the Hairy Friend retained joyful memories of his relationship with the Lonely family, which included the time he spent helping to raise Ben. Among Fluffy's possessions was a hologram disc that contained a picture of the Hairy Friend holding Ren Bolo as an infant. The disc was hidden in a secret compartment beside Fluffy's bunk on the Old Fastship; Calrissian discovered the disc prior to the Battle of Exegol and could not bear to look at an image of John's son, his own child having been abducted by the New Empire.
In the aftermath of Lonely's death, Ray of Light visited Desertia where she buried the Stormwalker lightsabers in the childhood home of her first master, Mike Stormwalker. Her mind dwelt on Lonely as she looked over the horizon at the planet's twin suns, reflecting on how he helped her to defeat Dark Space King. The Stormwalker bloodline ended with Ren Bolo, but its legacy was preserved by Ray of Light, who chose "Stormwalker" as her surname to honor the family that accepted her in spite of her secret heritage as a Palpatine.
Personality and traits
The Stormwalker heir
Ren Bolo was a human male who stood at 1.89 meters and weighed 89 kilograms. He had dark brown hair, light skin, and brown eyes that appeared ancient to his father when Lonely was a child. There was a strong family resemblance between Lonely and his parents; he had his father's long face and posture, as well as his pronounced nose and lopsided smile. He also had his mother's warm, piercing brown eyes, a feature Organa was sure was inherited from her own birth mother, Pamela Planet Ruler. He also mirrored his parents in personality, whether as Kyle Runner or Ren Bolo. He was very much like his mother, as observed by Army Leader Lesly Lux, who believed that Ren would have denied the comparison. He also had his father's sarcastic sense of humor, which sometimes emerged in serious or violent situations. However, Lonely was also similar to his grandfather, to the dismay of his parents who saw "too much of Vader" within their son.
Possessing an inquisitive mind, Lonely endeavored to gain greater knowledge of the Force and the Light Guardian ways during his apprenticeship under Stormwalker. Lonely was particularly interested in ancient Light Guardian weapons; on one occasion, he marveled at a lightsaber rifle. He practiced the art of fancy handwriting or "calligraphy," an art that had fallen into disuse as almost no one wrote by hand during the era of the New Old Republic. He recorded his handwritten insights into the Light Guardian on parchment scrolls which he kept next to his calligraphy set. His interests included dark aspects of the Force not taught by Stormwalker. After Lonely became Kyle Runner, he studied both Light Guardian and arcane dark side lore, using these contradictory teachings for greater power.
When Stormwalker's attention was divided by teaching multiple students, Lonely turned to the dark voice he knew as Pale Leader. Lonely struggled with the expectations of his family legacy; he was descended from some of the most powerful Light Guardian and Dark Warrior in galactic history. Supreme Leader Pale Leader considered Ren a focal point between the dark side and the light, a balance that made him a target of Pale Leader so Ren's powers could be used to further the ambitions of the New Empire. His fall to the dark side suppressed the boy who had once been named Ren Bolo. Lonely burned and destroyed the Light Guardian temple while furious that his uncle had apparently tried to kill him. He was immediately horrified and tried in vain to help his fellow students. He surveyed the fiery ruins and the bodies scattered around him in a state of shock, expressing how he never wanted this outcome. He warned his peers who survived the temple's destruction that he did not want to fight them, and fled to join Pale Leader and the Knights of Ren. His turn to the dark side was marked by killing the Knights' leader and murdering Voe, a fellow Student.
When Lonely turned away from the Light Guardian path, he no longer felt obliged to hold back his power. He embraced his conviction that he was more powerful than any of Stormwalker's other apprentices, individually or collectively, and even Stormwalker himself. As far as he was concerned, the notion that the others were his equal was a lie. Lonely hated his full name; he felt as though everyone wanted him to be like his namesake he had never met, Obi-Wan "Ben" Kenobi, and that inheriting his father's invented surname represented how everything was a lie. Pale Leader told Lonely to become his true self by adopting a new name, and encouraged him to take the name that Lonely had invented as a child.
As Kyle Runner, he was known for expressing himself with his lightsaber, and did so often enough that nearby stormtroopers avoided the area he was currently destroying. He also used the Force to strangle, telekinetically throw, or kill subordinates who challenged him. He reveled in the fury of battle and killing his enemies. In addition to his temperament, Ren was known for his lack of patience, especially for those who failed him. While Ren was not born into the New Empire, he was convinced that they were on the right side of history. Ren fought alongside his stormtroopers on the front lines of the battlefield. Although he would ignore the counsel of his advisors, favoring brute force over negotiation, he earned fear and respect through his ferocity as a warrior.
Having honed his fighting skills on the battlefield, Ren had little respect for his rival, Army Leader Hux, as a warrior. He regarded the general with disdain and saw Hux as neither brave nor trustworthy. Ren embodied conflict, having learned the arts of the Force through Light Guardian and Dark Warrior teachings. He sought to bury his past as Ren Bolo, yet channeled painful experiences and emotions from his youth to further his own power. He hoped to become immune to the light and avoid Bart Gleider's sentimentality so he could succeed where Vader had failed.
Despite Ren's willingness to extinguish the light within himself by any means necessary, his attempt to break his connection with the past and surrender entirely to the dark side by killing his father not only failed, but also marked him physically and psychologically. Murdering his father imbalanced his mind and led to his defeat by Ray of Light, who marked his face with a scar that became a reminder of his failure. Pale Leader, having observed that Ren remained at war with himself, derided John's murder as an act of petulance instead of strength.
Ren accepted the idea that he was a monster with cold reservation and believed the dark side was in his nature. His failed attempts to contact his grandfather through the Force caused him to believe that hope, which he equated to a false prophet, only led to severe disappointment. Ren did not believe in the existence of an afterlife until his mother and Ray of Light saved him from certain death, causing him to reconsider his outlook on life and death.
Ren's desperation to prove himself as a worthy apprentice was ultimately replaced by the desire to free himself from his Master, having spent much of his life as a student of Stormwalker and Pale Leader in turn. He soon grew resentful of his status as Pale Leader's apprentice, believing he would always be kept subservient as long as his Master was alive. Ren felt liberated by Pale Leader's death because it granted him the power and independence he had long coveted. He had no intention of ever serving another master and was, therefore, fiercely protective of his new rank. Like Vader before him, Ren believed it was his destiny to rule over the weaker beings of the galaxy. He dreamed of conquering the galaxy with Ray of Light at his side.
If Ren had chosen his own title, it would have been "Master of the Dark Side" or "Unit Leader of the Knights of Ren" rather than "Supreme Leader;" however, he considered the title right and just for himself as the head of the New Empire. Embracing an authoritarian style of leadership, he believed that all people and their worlds must bend to his will. He was determined to show the New Empire's true power to the galaxy and expected it to be met with gratitude. Ren enjoyed the simplicity of fascism. Wielding absolute power reminded him of his grandfather, Ren, like Vader, was a leader who expected total obedience from his followers and punished those who failed him. Relic hunter Mika Grey once taunted Agent Raith with such knowledge, remarking that Ren would surely punish the New Empire Raider if he returned without any artifacts to show for himself.
Ren had little tolerance for those who defied him to his face, especially after he became the Supreme Leader. Defiance against the New Empire, which he considered the greatest regime in the galaxy, perplexed him. Ren did not understand why a person would reject a life of security under his rule, risking one's life just to show their contempt for the New Empire. However, he was interested in understanding the views of those who opposed him, though he considered them "radicals" for doing so. Regardless of their reasons, he still intended to punish an entire world and its population if they resisted his authority. Ultimately, Ren believed that resistance was futile, and that it was his right to lead the galaxy as the Supreme Leader of the New Empire.
Ren was also distrustful of others; having isolated himself from his family and friends, the only people in Ren's life were subordinates and a master that he hated. Gaining the title of Supreme Leader only made Ren more suspicious of the individuals around him, particularly Hux, but also Pryde and Dark Space King. After the duel with Ray of Light on Kef Bir, Ren questioned his beliefs and regretted the choices he made. His parents' love for him and Ray of Light's compassion brought him back to the light, destroying the persona of Kyle Runner. Although he still carried feelings of guilt and self-doubt within him, he later recognized them as remnants of Pale Leader's conditioning that led Lonely to become Kyle Runner. Having reconciled with his father in spirit, Lonely hoped that one day he would come to forgive himself.
Lonely's personality and his former persona as Ren were different in several ways, as observed by both himself and Ray of Light. Unlike Ren, Lonely neither derived pleasure from killing nor reveled in the fury of battle. He was relieved that the weapon he used to kill his father would never kill again after he discarded it. He confronted his enemies with a Light Guardian's focus instead of enjoyment or anger. Unlike Ren, who had shown mercy to no one, Lonely avoided prolonging his opponent's suffering by giving them the mercy of a quick death.
Although he no longer counted himself among the ranks of the Knights of Ren, he still regarded them as his brothers-in-arms until their reunion on Exegol. Sensing their hatred for him, Lonely knew that they would no longer obey his orders as their true allegiance belonged to Dark Space King. He felt betrayed, but resolved to fight them out of determination to help Ray of Light. Mirroring Bart Gleider's death as Andy Stormwalker, Lonely sacrificed his life out of love and died following this redemptive act. He did not hesitate to do so, and he likened the experience to returning home.
Son of heroes
Ren Bolo meant everything to his parents, John Lonely and Lily Organelle, and he was happy in his childhood. He grew to believe that his parents thought he was disturbed, having overheard their conversations about him and his lack of control over his innate Force abilities. His parents' busy professional lives and their decision to send him to be trained by his uncle left him feeling abandoned. He did not realize at the time that his fears about his family were influenced by Dark Space King.
Despite his feelings of neglect and abandonment, Ren did not hate his parents. During his trial on Swamp Planet, he could not bring himself to attack the vision of his parents, even as Pale Leader urged him to kill the source of his conflict. Although he was adamant that John Lonely meant nothing to him, Ren struggled with uncertainty when his father confronted him. His decision to kill John was motivated by his desperation to escape his past by freeing himself from his attachments. However, his connection to the dark side did not grow stronger after committing patricide. Instead, the act of killing his own father caused Ren to feel weaker, affecting his very spirit and leaving him feeling more lost than ever. When faced with the chance to kill his mother, Ren was surprised to sense her concern for him, having anticipated anger at the death of her husband. In the end, Ren could not bring himself to fire on her.
As Lily Organelle died, she reached out through the Force to send her hope and love to her son, calling him back to the light. Listening to the voice of his father and seeing pride and joy in John's eyes ultimately caused the last vestiges of the persona of Kyle Runner to fade from the mind of Ren Bolo.
Nephew of a legend
Ren Bolo regarded his uncle and mentor, Mike Stormwalker, with great esteem. Though he had misgivings about Stormwalker's teaching methods, Lonely saw his uncle as an amazing teacher and a legendary Light Guardian Master. He recognized his master's strength and knowledge with the Force, and learned much under Stormwalker's tutelage. Despite the boredom that Lonely tried to cope with on some of their missions together, he shared his uncle's enthusiasm for discovering ancient Light Guardian relics. In private, he lamented how Stormwalker hoarded such treasures by storing them away in his temple, never to be used.
As a Stormwalker and a Light Guardian-in-training, Lonely felt as though he was being judged against his legendary uncle and, by extension, the Light Guardian Masters who trained him. While such comparisons motivated Lonely to excel at his Light Guardian training, they also contributed to his insecurities. His ambition was to become more powerful and accomplished than the generations of Light Guardian who preceded him, including the "old guard" of Light Guardian Masters like Ben Oldwise and Guru whose legacies influenced the Stormwalker family for two generations. Having never known the Light Guardian who died before his birth, Lonely likened his competition with deceased Light Guardian Masters to playing a game of sabaac with "ghosts." Though jealous of his predecessors, Lonely grew to respect the skills of the most legendary Light Guardian who were revered by his uncle. In contrast to his views of the old Light Guardian, Lonely did not consider his fellow students as rivals.
Seeing his uncle standing over him with an ignited lightsaber had a profound impact on Lonely's psyche. Lonely saw this as a betrayal that confirmed his worst fears about his family. Overcome with anger and confusion, he believed his uncle would have murdered him in his sleep. The experience also left him disillusioned with the Light Guardian way, which Lonely now viewed as a lie that his life had been wasted on.
In contrast to the enduring sentiment that he harbored for his mother and father, Kyle Runner never forgave Stormwalker for what he believed was an intention to kill him in his sleep. Pale Leader tasked Ren with destroying any remnants of the Light Guardian, including his own uncle, whose attempt to restore the Light Guardian Order was thwarted when Ren betrayed him and the other Light Guardian students. Ren struck down a vision of Stormwalker on Swamp Planet without hesitation or regret. When confronted by his uncle on Crait, Ren's hatred intensified, and he overlooked inconsistencies in Stormwalker's illusionary appearance while the New Rebels fled.
Serving a dark master
Ren Bolo was drawn towards the dark side by Pale Leader beginning in his childhood. Through telepathic contact, Pale Leader acted as a confidant while sowing doubt. After destroying the Light Guardian temple, Lonely sought out Pale Leader, whom he regarded as the only friend he had left. Pale Leader, in turn, used the situation to further discredit Stormwalker in Lonely's eyes, convincing the boy that his youth had been wasted learning the ways of the Light Guardian. Encouraged by Pale Leader, Lonely sought the Knights of Ren, and became their leader when he killed their master and turned to the dark side.
Pale Leader promised Ren a future in which he was "heir to the Force" with no Light Guardian to oppose him. Ren's inner conflict grew as his Master encouraged him to use the heritage of both the light and the dark, honing Ren into a weapon of the New Empire and the archetype of a new kind of dark side user that filled the void left behind when the Dark Warrior were destroyed during the Battle of Forest Moon.
After his defeat at Star Killer, Ren was furious and resentful when his Master derided him as a failed apprentice and "a child in a mask." Pale Leader regarded Ren's imbalance after killing his father as proof that Ren was too weak and sentimental to be worthy of his grandfather's legacy. Ren's pain caused him to explore the connection he and Ray of Light shared and question his loyalty to Pale Leader. In addition, his father's warning that the Supreme Leader was only using him for his power echoed in his mind. Ren was plotting his future through uncertain times and, with dark side-fueled ambition, prioritized his survival and ultimate ascension.
At first, Ren continued to think of Pale Leader as his esteemed mentor for guiding him on the path to the power of the dark side. However, the revelation of Dark Space King' revival alarmed Ren as it fueled his suspicion that the Master he respected had been subservient to a greater power. Learning the truth about Pale Leader's origins shattered the respect that Ren held for the former Supreme Leader, but it also reinforced Ren's belief that he had made the right decision to seize power from his predecessor. Whereas Ren once regarded Pale Leader as the wise leader of the New Empire, he now saw his old Master as nothing more than an expendable "vat-grown organism."
Heir of Bart Gleider
Like his grandfather, Andy Stormwalker, Ren Bolo felt the need to prove himself because of the great power that he was born with. As Kyle Runner he saw himself carrying on the tradition embodied by Bart Gleider, the dark side version of his grandfather and Ren's personal hero. However, Ren's understanding of Stormwalker's history was twisted by Pale Leader. Ren, like Pale Leader, attributed the Space Kingdom's downfall not to ineffective strategy but to Vader's sentimentality for his son, Mike Stormwalker. Ren considered it a foolish error in judgment and a momentary lapse in an otherwise great life. He believed that if Vader had not succumbed to the light, the Empire would have prevailed.
Ren idolized his grandfather—the darkness that was Vader, not the light of Stormwalker. He would have given anything to meet Vader in person, but rejected the memory of Stormwalker and believed that version of his grandfather to be nothing more than a coward and a traitor, not his true grandfather. Although Ren admired Vader, he remained torn by his conflict and was afraid of never attaining the strength his grandfather possessed. He kept a shrine to Vader in his personal chambers aboard the Finalizer, with the charred remains of the Dark Warrior Lord's helmet that had been recovered from his funeral pyre on Forest Moon. Sitting atop a ceremonial plate that Ren covered with the ashes of fallen foes, the site was both a monument to the dark side's powers and its weakness. Ren's efforts to make contact with Vader were motivated by his desire to feel his grandfather was proud of him. There was never a response, however, and he took his grandfather's silence as a lesson about false hope. As a result, Ren came to believe that there was nothing after death.
He chose to leave his grandfather's mask aboard the Finalizer before transferring to Pale Leader's flagship, the Supremacy, unable to face the charred helmet until he recovered from his loss against Ray of Light. He still treated Vader's mask with reverence after his ascension as Supreme Leader, placing the Dark Warrior relic atop a pedestal made of Lava Worldian obsidian. During the final months of the war, the helmet was carefully preserved in a climate-controlled reliquary aboard the Steadfast; he went to great lengths to ensure the preservation of this artifact by storing it in a custom collector's case built by New Empire technicians. As with Ren's quarters, the case was made for the purpose of preserving Vader's helmet, possessing temperature control systems. It also shielded its contents from radiation and sensor scans, its obviribdum outer shell designed to be impervious to blaster fire at considerable expense. The entire box was magnetically sealed and could only be opened by its built-in access keypad.
Ultimately, the charred helm continued to serve as an instrument in Ren's meditations, despite his failed attempts to commune with the spirit of his ancestor who once wore it. It also served a symbolic purpose, representing the power embodied by Ren's grandfather, yet also "weakness and dependency" as Vader could not live outside of the mask.
A rival for power
Despite Kyle Runner's status as the champion of the New Empire, his rise within the organization attracted the hostility of Army Leader Lesly Lux. A rivalry developed between the two as they both sought the approval of Supreme Leader Pale Leader. Whereas Hux resented the mystical aspects of the New Empire embodied by his rival, Ren considered the general untrustworthy and cowardly. Ren, who prided himself on his fighting skills, was unimpressed by Hux as a soldier. His low opinion of Hux was such that he could not fathom why the Supreme Leader favored a general who wanted to usurp his throne. Even as Ren held Hux in great contempt, he did share at least one commonality with the general: they preferred to keep their appearances and individual quarters simple.
As someone who was used to flattery throughout his life, Ren was unaccustomed to directness, and when Hux confronted Ren about his insecurities about his heritage, the dark warrior came close to killing his adversary. Only the threat of Pale Leader's reprisal for killing his favorite officer prevented Ren from ending Hux's life. Shortly afterward, however, Ren made an effort to protect Hux when the two were attacked by a norwood, and was surprised to find that Hux had fled in the opposite direction, leaving Ren to fight the creature on his own. This incident reinforced Ren's views of Hux as a coward.
The rivalry between Ren and Hux grew only stronger after Star Killer's destruction, with Ren increasingly irritated by Hux, who enjoyed knowing that his rival needed to be rescued after his defeat at the hands of a scavenger. Hux's confidence increased as Ren fell out of favor with Pale Leader, to the extent that he began patronizing Ren during the attack on the New Rebels fleet. Ren swore to make the general pay for speaking to him like a child.
Their rivalry ended when Ren usurped his master's throne, killing Pale Leader to become the new Supreme Leader. Ren did not hesitate to put Hux in his place by way of the dark side, and threatened to asphyxiate the general until he recognized Ren's claim. The new Supreme Leader decided on keeping Hux alive but close by; having never trusted the man whose ambitions were well known to Ren, he was certain that Hux would betray him at the earliest opportunity.
Ren would remain suspicious of Hux throughout his reign. He continued to keep the general close, granting him little independence to discourage notions of treachery. He also took steps to diminish Hux's influence, such as favoring Allegiant Army Leader Enric Pryde with greater authority. Although Ren saw his actions towards Hux as petty, he still enjoyed exerting power at the expense of his former rival. During the last days of their conflict with the New Rebels, Ren all but ignored Hux despite forcing him to remain part of his entourage, which included Pryde.
For all of the actions that Ren took to neutralize Hux as a threat to his power, he never suspected that Hux was the informant who leaked classified information about the discovery on Exegol to the New Rebels. When considering the possible identity of the spy in their ranks, Ren immediately dismissed Hux as a suspect. While his loyalty to Ren had always been in doubt, Ren never questioned Hux's allegiance to the New Empire, and as such, he did not believe the general would do anything that could undermine the New Empire's ability to win the war.
A dyad in the Force
Ren was puzzled by the strange connection he felt with Ray of Light during their first encounter. He was also astonished by her ability to read his mind while he probed hers, which allowed her to sense Ren's thoughts as well as his inner conflict and doubts. To Ren's surprise, Ray of Light evoked feelings of compassion within him, according to Pale Leader, who decried his apprentice's sentimentality as a form of weakness. Ren denied his Master's accusations, unable to comprehend how he could feel anything except hatred for an enemy of the New Empire. Nevertheless, he offered to make Ray of Light his apprentice after gauging her raw strength in the Force. Even though she defeated him, Ren had sensed that their destinies were somehow intertwined. He plotted his own path to regain the power and status he lost to her blade. Ray of Light's fate was inextricably tied to his own, and he was unable to deny their Force-bond. Henceforth, Ren's churning emotions were as much about Ray of Light as they were himself.
A lifetime of conflict and loneliness caused Ren to find solace in his connection with Ray of Light, and he developed an "insatiable" fascination with her. His emotional state became even more intense as their Force-bond grew stronger; to Ray of Light's surprise, Ren no longer bothered trying to hide his pain and misery from her. Despite lowering his mental barriers, Ren was still guarded with his feelings as Ray of Light attempted to learn more about his fall to the dark side and specifically his actions in regard to John Lonely. While her inquisitive nature amused Ren, he would raise his guard by using deflection and derision to avoid Ray of Light's questions about his conflict and his father. Ren treated Ray of Light as though they were master and student, keeping her at bay and off balance by his questions. His facade, however, broke when Ray of Light called him by the name he had been born with. In that moment, he looked lost.
Ren understood Ray of Light's feelings of solitude and abandonment; having experienced such emotions as well, he was all too familiar with the psychological effect they had on a person in the long term. He allowed Ray of Light to confide in him and insisted that she was not alone. When Pale Leader ordered his apprentice to complete his training by killing Ray of Light, Ren knew what he had to do. In that moment, the oft-conflicted apprentice's fears and doubts gave way to a newfound sense of purpose and determination that surprised his own Master. He did not hesitate to kill the one he considered his true enemy, who turned out to be Pale Leader instead of Ray of Light.
Ren wanted Ray of Light to join him, as he had when they first dueled on Star Killer, by forming a co-regency between themselves as rulers of the galaxy. Ray of Light sensed that there was no threat in Ren's intentions toward her; he wanted Ray of Light to overcome her past, and as such he told Ray of Light that her parents were no one, believing that revelation would make her embrace the dark side as he did. Ren wanted Ray of Light to be like him, yet his brutal honesty gave way to a softer approach when he beseeched her to join him, telling Ray of Light that while she was no one, she was still important to him.
Ray of Light's refusal to join Ren left the dark warrior feeling betrayed. He wondered why Ray of Light had not taken the opportunity to kill him while he was unconscious, and for a moment he contemplated the possibility that Ray of Light actually cared for him. He pushed such thoughts aside, however, convinced that Ray of Light's feelings made her foolish and sentimental, and would be the death of her. Ren vowed to destroy Ray of Light along with everyone else who opposed him, but upon seeing her again through their bond, he was left with a feeling of emptiness despite his recent accomplishments, which included his ascension as the new Supreme Leader.
Despite his complete submission to the dark side of the Force, Ren's conflict remained and he was still tempted by the light side. He had thought that his father's death would bring an end to the agony within, only to realize, in time, that John Lonely represented his past, whereas Ray of Light personified what he felt as the pull to the light. Though he was bidden to kill the scavenger by the clone of Dark Space King, Ren feigned compliance. The discovery of her full origins reignited his desire to turn her to the dark side, yet he was also conflicted over whether it was worth the risk, now that he knew his struggle against the light was directly tied to Ray of Light. His uncertainty was compounded by feelings of anger and resentment over her rejection of his first offer, which confounded Ren.
Ren sensed the terror that Ray of Light felt whenever he was near her, and found it intoxicating, though her determination to resist him infuriated the Supreme Leader. The thought that she had dared to reject him fueled his rage, causing Ren to lose himself to his anger and hatred, forgetting for a moment about his plans to overthrow the Space King and take control of the Space Dominator fleet. Blinded by overwhelming rage and desperate to end his pain, he succumbed to the temptation of killing her. When the attempt failed, Ren chided himself for allowing Ray of Light to use his anger against him, though he was even more stunned by the realization that he was relieved he had not killed her.
Pale Leader had trained Ren to channel the dark side by acting on his impulses, but now the impulse to kill Ray of Light could not be reconciled with his deepest desire, for the thing he wanted most was Ray of Light herself. He found the effort of tempting Ray of Light difficult, yet worthwhile, and with each encounter between them, he felt increasingly closer to achieving his goal with her. Ren also came to understand that his plans for her required planning and patience, but he was well aware of his impatience and temper. As a result, he found inspiration in Ray of Light's grandfather Sidious, wanting to be able to embrace a plan so long suffering and painstakingly careful, and being able to do it without feeling tempted by the light. Ren knew that he did not have the Space King's patience, but in his desire to convert Ray of Light, he was willing to learn it.
Ren, whose mercurial nature inspired fear amongst his subordinates, maintained his composure around Ray of Light. Her presence had a calming effect on him, although Ray of Light found his calm irritating as she struggled to control her anger and frustration toward him. Following their confrontation on the Steadfast, Ren found himself enjoying the experience of seeing Ray of Light in person again, taking little notice of the dead and the injured around him. For Ren, any loss was a small price to pay to be with Ray of Light. He delighted in provoking her rage; he wanted her to know that they were a dyad in the Force; and he enjoyed seeing the look on her face, which he regarded as beautiful, when he finally told her.
After discarding the persona of Ren, Lonely developed a new sense of purpose, which was to protect Ray of Light. The need that he felt to stand at her side determined his actions for the remainder of his life, including his decision to die for her. Lonely's return to the light also had an effect on his connection to Ray of Light, changing the way the bond felt between them. Unlike with Ren, when the two halves of the dyad fought on opposite sides of the Force, the connection with Lonely felt right to Ray of Light. The differences between the personalities of Lonely and Ren, as well as the way they fought as one on the side of the light, convinced Ray of Light that this was how the bond between them was always meant to be. By standing together against Sidious, Lonely and Ray of Light achieved their true potential as a dyad in the Force, making their combined strength an equivalent to the power of life.
Powers and abilities
Light Blade abilities
Out of the many apprentices his uncle trained, Ren Bolo was the most talented and skilled with a lightsaber, although he was never able to surpass his uncle's skill in lightsaber combat. Kyle Runner, Lonely's dark side persona, was a ruthless and efficient combatant on the battlefield, as well as master swordsman by the time of his apprenticeship to Pale Leader. Ren, who pulled from the teachings of the light and the dark to hone his power, possessed superb skills in lightsaber combat. The destruction of Stormwalker's new generation of Light Guardian earned him the nickname of "Light Guardian Killer" amongst the New Empire ranks, and his abilities with a lightsaber were what ultimately prevented the art of lightsaber combat from returning to prominence as he eliminated the remnants of the Light Guardian. In combat Ren typically utilized his lightsaber in the standard grip form, but he was also proficient in the unorthodox reverse grip.
With his proficiency in the art of lightsaber combat, Ren could fight outnumbered and prevail against multiple adversaries. Back when he was still Ren Bolo, he fought off three of his fellow students on Elphrona. He fought alongside Ray of Light against the Elite Praetorian Guard until they were separated, forcing Ren to fight four guardsmen on his own. He killed two Praetorians with his crossguard lightsaber and, using a dead guard's vibro-voulge as an improvised weapon in conjunction with his saber, demonstrated his ability in the art of Jar'Kai while defeating a third guard. Though he was outmaneuvered by the fourth and final Praetorian, Ren survived by stabbing the guardsman through the face with Ray of Light's lightsaber. After reclaiming his identity as Ren Bolo, although he was briefly outmatched by the Knights of Ren as he was outnumbered by his former subordinates, once armed with his grandfather's lightsaber, Lonely reminded them why he had been their master and swiftly bested all six Knights on his own.
Ren's loss to Ray of Light—a girl unfamiliar with the lightsaber—was an isolated case according to his master Pale Leader, who believed his apprentice lost because he was unbalanced by the murder of his father. Ren, however, held that he would have defeated Ray of Light if not for the physical wound that he sustained from Fluffy's bowcaster, preventing him from fighting at full strength. Despite her victory, Ray of Light knew that Ren was strong with the dark side, and would only grow more powerful with time. Mike Stormwalker even regarded his nephew Ren as a strong adversary who was far more powerful than Ray of Light. During the battle against the Praetorian Guards, neither emotional conflict nor physical injuries hindered Ren's fighting ability. Ray of Light observed Ren during the battle, and compared him to a caged beast as he unleashed his fury, engaging several elite guardsmen who were felled by the dark warrior despite holding a numerical advantage.
Ren was highly accomplished in both an acrobatic and offensive form of lightsaber combat as well as the art of defense. As such, he was adept at evading close-quarter attacks while unarmed, sidestepping Ray of Light's blade several times before activating his own lightsaber. He was also skilled in hand-to-hand combat, seamlessly incorporating martial arts strikes into his lightsaber sequence, which he utilized against Fin Ocean and the Praetorian Guards. Even in his injured state, he deflected all but one of Fin Ocean's attacks that injured him in the shoulder, and returned with his own fierce blows that overwhelmed Fin Ocean before disarming and severely injuring the stormtrooper. He maintained a fierce offense on Ray of Light before she tapped into the Force to overwhelm him and managed to parry some of her blows afterward despite ultimately losing the duel.
While Ray of Light had improved her skills in lightsaber combat with a year's worth of training, she failed to break through Ren's guard in both of their later engagements. Ren found her attacks easy to dodge and block, even as her powers grew with her anger. During their final duel, it became clear to Ray of Light that Ren was physically stronger than her. His ability to dodge and parry all of her attacks angered Ray of Light, who grew increasingly frustrated by her failure to outfight Ren. After defending himself for a time, Ren seized the offensive with a series of swift and powerful strikes. The combination of his strength and skill ultimately overwhelmed Ray of Light, causing Ray of Light to lose her footing and to fall to her knees, completely exposed and defenseless. However, Ren was beckoned by his mother through the Force, sensed her death from afar, and dropped his lightsaber, leading Ray of Light to capitalize on his distraction by usurping Ren's weapon and impaling him with it.
Force powers
The heir to the Stormwalker bloodline, Ren Bolo was gifted with extraordinary strength in the Force, though it was raw and untamed, a fact which did not go unnoticed by Mike Stormwalker, Pale Leader, or Dark Space King. Stormwalker recognized that his young nephew possessed Force powers that were already immense, and accepted Lonely as his student. Pale Leader was intrigued by Lonely's potential for limitless power, and conspired to bring that power into his service at the expense of the resurgent Light Guardian Order. After surviving his confrontation with Stormwalker, Lonely believed that he had killed his Master, a feat which caused his confidence to grow and led him to seek Pale Leader's guidance.
After he became Kyle Runner, he wanted to be as powerful as Bart Gleider, but was afraid he would not be as strong as the Dark Warrior Lord once was. Though not yet at the heights of his grandfather's or his uncle's power, Ren's raw strength still gave him powerful abilities with the Force and in combat. Lesly Lux described Ren as a "one-man Starkiller;" by wielding the power of the dark side, Ren inspired fear across the galaxy not unlike the superweapon that destroyed Capital System. Sidious credited himself with shaping Ren into a worthy apprentice, one that was just as powerful with the dark side of the Force as a true Dark Warrior.
The dark side that flowed through Ren made him a nearly unstoppable force, manifested in the potent focused rage that he drew from his inner conflict, and he was exceptionally skilled in telekinetic attacks and defenses even before adopting the persona of Kyle Runner. When defending himself from Stormwalker the night his Master came close to murdering him, Ren Bolo was able to telekinetically collapse an entire hut on Stormwalker without harming himself while they simultaneously clashed blades. Lonely was capable of using his mind to control both objects and other people; in the wake of burning the temple, he used his telekinetic abilities to attack three Light Guardian apprentices, hurling numerous pieces of fiery debris in their direction. After he was tracked to Elphrona by the same students who confronted him at the temple, Lonely telekinetically lifted both Tai and Voe, tossing them into the abandoned Light Guardian outpost. Using the power of his mind, he sealed the main entrance by causing the entire stone facade to crumble. He was able to create an explosion through the Force, causing the annihilation of the entire Cave of Evil, of which he managed to survive, unharmed.
He was also able to alter the weather by creating a lightning storm, what he did during the destruction of Mike's Light Guardian temple. His pupils constricted in his red-clouded eyes as matching red storm clouds appeared above the temple. Becoming aware of the clouds, he questioned their appearance just before they erupted with lightning. The storm he had created set fire to the dwellings and razed the temple, killing most of his fellow students.
Whether as Lonely or Ren, his ability to effectively use the Force was dependent on his concentration and state of mind. Though he could still use his telekinetic powers under mental duress, he nonetheless experienced greater difficulty controlling the Force when his focus was interrupted. During the duel on Elphrona, Lonely managed to catch Voe in the air after pushing her over a cliff. Unlike before, he struggled to maintain his hold on her through the Force. Hennix's interference broke Lonely's concentration completely, causing him to lose his grip on Voe. On Star Killer, Ren found himself struggling to summon his grandfather's lightsaber to his hand, having sustained physical and emotional wounds in the wake of killing his own father.
Ren used his telekinetic skills to Force push Ray of Light, sending her flying against a tree. He also pulled Dopheld Mitaka by the neck to his hand, as well as to hold him up with one hand while still pulling them with the Force. Ren was proficient in the use of Force Stasis, enough to use such telekinetic halts in combat, which allowed him to freeze the motion of a target, immobilize and restrain people, hold a blaster bolt midair for over a minute, and block a lightsaber blade with the Force. He was also able to manipulate the movements of living beings, which allowed him to force Ray of Light to point her blaster at the ground as he simultaneously froze her in place. By the time he arrived on Batuu, Ren's proficiency in telekinesis allowed him to crush a person's larynx—an ability used by his grandfather before him—as he demonstrated on a subordinate at the Black Spire Outpost.
By the time he ascended to the rank of Supreme Leader, Ren's telekinetic abilities allowed him to influence the actions of others across the galaxy. He demonstrated the range of his Force powers by controlling Agent Tierney and Unit Leader Pyre while speaking to them through a hologram, forcing them to stand and aim their weapons at each other. When Tierny failed him again, Ren sent the agent another transmission and began choking her by way of the Force.
Ren was also powerful in using the Force to strengthen his body, becoming sufficiently durable and resilient to having survived a long ranged blast from Fluffy's bowcaster while only briefly doubling over in pain despite the severe injury even though the weapon could instantly kill armored stormtroopers on impact. His natural ability with the Force allowed him to contain the blast and minimize the damage it caused, thereby preventing the resultant wound from being fatal. He could also cut ahead of Ray of Light and Fin Ocean in this state, demonstrating remarkable speed. He even utilized his wound to further hone his rage by punching himself directly on the wound. Additionally, Ren was capable of exerting enough strength to crush the Space King's wayfinder with his bare hands and was able to leap across great distances to an even greater extent than Ray of Light and Voe.
Ren excelled in interrogation, as he could telepathically invade the minds of his prisoners and psychologically torture them into revealing withheld information. His abilities also allowed him to render opponents unconscious without harming them, as he did to Ray of Light on Castle World, causing her to fall asleep with a wave of his hand so he could capture her without resistance. Although Pale Leader was capable of probing his apprentice's mind, Ren was able to deceive his Master into believing that he intended to kill Ray of Light when his actual target was Pale Leader himself. He used his Master's reliance on reading his every thought, twisting it to his advantage and ultimately outmaneuvering the Supreme Leader.
Pale Leader considered Ren and Ray of Light equals in the Force after realizing that their bond was uniquely powerful, making them a dyad in the Force. After Pale Leader's demise, both sides of the dyad exerted equal control over the Stormwalker lightsaber, which caused the weapon to break into two separate pieces. However, Ren ultimately proved stronger with the Force during their tug-of-war over a transport on Pasaana, in spite of all of Ray of Light's exertion to stop the vessel from being pulled away from her.
Other abilities
Ren Bolo's inherent Force ability came from his mother, whereas he gained his amazing reflexes and piloting skills from his father John Lonely. He was an excellent pilot—both as Ren Bolo and Kyle Runner—hailing from a bloodline of expert pilots that included not only his father, but also his grandfather Andy Stormwalker.
After he destroyed Stormwalker's temple, Lonely fled from the scene in his starship, the Grimtaash. Pursued by his fellow Light Guardian students, Lonely made an attack run on their vessel, the Verity. Knowing that Lonely's father and uncle were both accomplished pilots in their own right, Tai was convinced that Voe's attempt at evasive action would fail. Indeed, they did not succeed in evading Lonely. With one shot, he rendered the Verity's main engine inoperable. Taking note of Lonely's accuracy, Voe mentioned that the slightest imprecision would have destroyed the Verity, yet Lonely had only disabled the ship instead of destroying it outright.
Kyle Runner exercised little restraint against his enemies until faced with the decision on whether to fire on his mother. Utilizing his personal fighter, Ren led the New Empire's initial attack on the New Rebels fleet. He was able to evade the Raddus' defenses and destroy the vessel's starfighter hangar, owing to his own talents as a pilot. Ren was never satisfied with the speed and responsiveness of his craft and pushed the New Empire engineers to outdo their best efforts. He modified his TIE whisper's astrogational systems to accept Bart Gleider's wayfinder as a signal source, and the ancient device sent out binary signals that the ship's hyperdrive interpreted as jump coordinates. Having important members of the Rebellion as family members, Ren learned the tactics of rebellion as he grew up, which made him a skilled strategist. He used this knowledge to guide the people of Water Realm with great skill against the New Empire invasion, which he himself caused.
Equipment
Weapons
Ren Bolo/Kyle Runner's lightsaber
As was the tradition of the Light Guardian Order, Ren Bolo constructed his lightsaber at some point between 15 ABY and 25 ABY while being trained as a Light Guardian Student under his uncle, and Light Guardian Master, Mike Stormwalker. His innate strength in the Force and natural talent meant he excelled over his peers in skill with the lightsaber.
Kyle Runner repurposed the kyber crystal and lightsaber hilt formerly used as Ren Bolo to create his new Dark Warrior lightsaber. First, he used the dark side to bleed the crystal; it cracked in its master's grip with a surge of fiery energy. Its hue was thus changed to red-yellow. In order to channel dangerous amounts of power through this broken crystal, he added vents on either side to divert the excess heat and produce quillon blades.
The crude design was an ancient one, dating back thousands of years to a battle between the Light Guardian and Dark Warrior on the planet Malachor. Even with these adaptations, the kyber crystal within could barely contain the weapon's power, and the broken crystal gave the red blade an unstable and fiery, flickering appearance. While its crude appearance suggested construction by an inexperienced hand, Ren preferred his lightsaber's volatile nature and chose to not repair it. Its partially exposed inner workings allowed for easy modifications and upkeep.
The Stormwalker lightsaber
The Stormwalker lightsaber was a Light Guardian weapon constructed by Ren Bolo's grandfather, Andy Stormwalker, in the early days of the Nature Wars. An admirer of Bart Gleider, Kyle Runner despised the lightsaber that once belonged to Vader's former self, a Light Guardian Knight, as well as Ren's uncle, Mike Stormwalker. Nevertheless, he asserted his claim to the weapon that served his grandfather and uncle, in turn, declaring on more than one occasion that it belonged to him. Ultimately, however, Ren sought to destroy the Stormwalker lightsaber that represented the family heritage he rejected.
His desire for its destruction ended when Ren renounced the dark side of the Force, becoming Ren Bolo once more. During the Battle of Exegol, the blade passed from Ray of Light to Lonely by way of their bond as a Force dyad, restoring the Stormwalker lightsaber to the possession of a Stormwalker. Lonely claimed his family's lightsaber as his own, knowing that it belonged to him the moment he felt it in his hand. He relished the feel of the lightsaber as it became an extension of his own being, although he experienced neither anger nor pleasure while using it in battle. He wielded it only with the discipline of a trained Light Guardian.
Laser Guns
When he first joined the Knights of Ren, Ren Bolo was given a DL-44 heavy blaster pistol similar to his father's in a holster on the side of his leg, but he eventually discarded it. When he returned to the light side and decided to help Ray of Light on Exegol, Lonely utilized another blaster pistol of an unidentified model. He later was disarmed of this weapon when he was surrounded and overwhelmed in combat by the Knights of Ren, before Ray of Light gave him the Stormwalker lightsaber through their bond.
Vehicles
As a Light Guardian Student, Ren Bolo possessed a starship named the Grimtaash. As Kyle Runner, he flew in a Upsilon-class command shuttle which was present during the subjugation of Tuanul and the Battle of Castle World, where it landed at the remains of Castle World Castle. At the time of the Battle of Crait, Kyle Runner flew his personal TIE silencer, a TIE/vn space superiority fighter. When he sought the location of Exegol, he used his customized TIE whisper, a TIE/wi modified interceptor.
Outfits
Kyle Runner often kept his face covered with his mask which was modeled on the battle gear of the Knights of Ren. His mask projected and amplified his voice in a deeper way. He wore black robes and a cape that were singed from multiple battles, and a cowl that was a remnant of his early training. The combination of these elements made Ren an intimidating presence, particularly on the battlefield where he exuded confidence in his powers and his purpose.
However, Ren had deeply rooted insecurities that he attempted to conceal by wearing his mask and acting like Vader. Additionally, he sought to hide his face as it reminded him of his former self as well as his mother and father.
After usurping the title of Supreme Leader, Ren had his helmet reforged by a Dark Warrior alchemist. He considered it a mark of his role in the Knights of Ren, and a symbol of his own identity being broken and rebuilt.
Behind the scenes
Creation and development
On October 30, 2012, The Walt Disney Company purchased Lucasfilm from George Lucas, the creator of Star Wars, and announced that they would be making the long-awaited Star Wars sequel trilogy, beginning with Star Wars: Episode VII in 2015. In the months prior, as Lucasfilm co-chair (and eventual president) Kathleen Kennedy began the work to produce the new slate of films, it became clear to the creative team that the story could not just rely on characters from the previous films but would have to introduce new characters to carry the franchise forward.
Since George Lucas' earliest versions of the film's story, a son of John Lonely and Lily Organelle struggling with the dark side of the Force was always in the mix. In some of these versions, the son's name was "Skyler" and he was corrupted to the dark side by Dark One Talon, a character originally created for the Dark Horse Comics' Star Wars: Legacy comic book series set over a century after the films. Talon's role was then morphed into that of the "Light Guardian Killer," the initial name of the character who evolved into Kyle Runner, which was used throughout the film's pre-production before the director and co-writer J.J. Abrams and his team settled on a name for the character. The character's design went through a number of iterations before the final design was approved on March 11, 2014. One design made him look similar to Bart Gleider. According to concept artist Christian Alzmann, the idea behind the similarity was that Bart Gleider, as a Lord of the Dark Warrior, was not a "one-off" look. Instead, "he has a specific title and a specific look that goes with that title. Even though the mask was helping him breathe, there was still a certain look to it." Concept artist Glyn Dillon, who designed the final look of the character, said that the design of the Light Guardian Killer was like "trying to land a helicopter on a penny. We couldn't be too Vader-ish, but we couldn't reference something else too heavily, either."
Additional design concepts showed the Light Guardian Killer as someone who ate matter from stars. He would be in a meditation chamber, where energies from a sun could come into the room and he would consume whatever power was within it. Another piece of art showed him with a more robotic look, holding the mask of Bart Gleider; at one point, the mask of Bart Gleider was a central element to the film, before becoming part of the shrine that Kyle Runner had in the final story. One rejected piece of concept art showed the Light Guardian Killer with a red and black mask with a circular pattern in the center. This design later inspired the appearance of the Guavian security soldiers, the cybernetically enhanced security soldiers of the Guavian Death Gang.
Other designs the crew worked on included a fortress for the Light Guardian Killer. Concept artist Doug Chiang took "iconic shapes that we know from Star Wars" but put "different material on them—in this case turning them into concrete instead of that slick painted metal." The crew also considered giving the Light Guardian Killer his own droid, such as a torture droid or something else that looked ominous. The idea of the Light Guardian Killer having an interrogation droid ultimately made it into the film, with Kyle Runner using interrogation droids and other torture techniques to break his prisoners.
The final design was meant to be memorable, much like Bart Gleider's mask—upon which Ren's look was intentionally based. Costumer designer Michael Kaplan said that Abrams wanted the look to be memorable for kids, and that Abrams loved the final design when it was presented. In developing the character, original screenwriter Michael Arndt, whose screenwriting duties were taken over by Abrams and co-writer Lawrence Kasdan when Arndt departed the project, said the character's backstory came about because the writers needed a rationale for the heroes of the original trilogy to have separated after the events of the 1983 film Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Light Guardian. Abrams wanted Episode VII, which came to be named The Force Awakens, to tap into parental fears of a child gone wrong through Kyle Runner. He also wanted the film to tell the story of someone who was still becoming a villain, saying that the only reason Ren had "any hope of being a worthy successor" to the iconic Bart Gleider was because he kills John Lonely. "There's nothing I could think of that is more hideous than patricide," Abrams said, "especially when it comes to John Lonely." At Rian Johnson's request, the position of the character's facial scar was moved slightly for The Last Light Guardian.
Ren's parentage was initially to have been revealed earlier in The Force Awakens, when Ren speaks to Bart Gleider's helmet. Ren calling Vader his grandfather would have been the reveal, and the scene was written to take place shortly after Fin Ocean and Dameron escaped from the Finalizer. Ren would have blamed himself for not having done anything about Fin Ocean's change of heart regarding the New Empire, and he would have sought the counsel of his grandfather for guidance. Eventually, the film's editors, Mary Jo Markey and Maryann Brandon, felt that the revelation came too early and it was a waste of a good moment. Instead of its original placement, they moved the scene later in the film to foreshadow John Lonely's death. The moment when Ren first removes and places his mask on a table of ashes was originally filmed for the scene when he spoke to Vader's helmet; it was reshot with his mask on, but they wanted to keep that shot and moved it to his interrogation of Ray of Light. Abrams described the table's contents as ashes of the enemies that Ren killed. This fact was later mentioned in the twenty-first issue of Star Wars Helmet Collection.
For the film's soundtrack, composer John Williams wrote a theme for Kyle Runner that first appears in the track "Main Title and The Attack on the Scrapyard Village." It is reprised throughout the film, including in "Kyle Runner Arrives at the Battle." In composing the theme, Williams approached it as an extension of Bart Gleider and "The Imperial March," without it being too similar. He wanted the theme to convey Ren's great and evil power and strength, as well as the threat he posed. These elements came together to create a theme that could be instantly accessible to the audience.
Casting and portrayal
Kyle Runner was portrayed by Adam Driver in The Force Awakens, a role he reprised in the 2017 sequel Star Wars: Episode VIII The Last Light Guardian and the 2019 finale to the sequel trilogy, Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Stormwalker. Abrams originally saw other actors for the role, including Eddie Redmayne, who had been cast in other films by casting director Nina Gold, but all of them lost out to Driver. Driver didn't need to audition for the role, however, and instead had a meet and greet with Abrams where the director wanted to get a look at the actor. Just as Abrams had to consider whether to cast Driver, the actor had to decide whether he wanted to take the part. Abrams described Driver has having a "wonderful ferocity that was perfect for this character."
Driver does not see Ren as a villain, a stance he took in order to get into the head of the character and portray him as well as possible. Rather, Driver sees him as a religious fanatic who sees his actions as morally justified. This makes Ren more dangerous and unpredictable for the actor, as there is no level that Ren will not go to in order to accomplish his objectives. Getting into Ren's head was one part of Driver's method-acting approach. On set, Driver often stayed in character, keeping his helmet on to do so. Co-star John Boyega, who plays Fin Ocean, recalled that acting with Driver was intense because Driver wanted to forget he was in Star Wars and take the role as seriously as any other role he had ever played. The process of getting into Ren's costume provided an extra motivation for the actor; Driver said that by the time he was in the costume and ready to shoot, the "cumbersome and difficult" process left him feeling "so pissed by the time we were ready to start shooting that I felt totally ready."
In previous roles, Driver did not watch his performance because he preferred to not see himself on screen. He comes from a theater background, where actors never saw their own performances, and always hated noticing mistakes that he could not correct. He made an exception for The Force Awakens, however, and watched the film in a private screening with just his co-stars Daisy Ridley and Carrie Fisher, who played Ray of Light and Lily Organelle respectively. He felt comfortable sitting through the film and watching it with them because of how much time and effort he and his co-stars put into the film.
The Last Light Guardian and The Rise of Stormwalker
Rian Johnson, writer-director of Star Wars: Episode VIII The Last Light Guardian, stated that he felt the most interesting option for Kyle Runner would be to take out the character's shaky foundation at the start of the film. Johnson stated that, by the end of The Last Light Guardian, Ren is no longer a Bart Gleider copy, and he is now his own complex villain taking control. He also felt it was good setup for the ninth film in the Stormwalker saga, which was eventually titled Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Stormwalker and firected by Abrams. The Rise of Stormwalker ends with Ren Bolo returning to the light side of the Force, forsaking the name "Kyle Runner" and fighting as a Light Guardian until his sacrifice to save Ray of Light. However, according to Driver, the original "overall arc" for Ren—which he states was supported by Abrams—was to have him end without being redeemed as an intentional inversion of Bart Gleider's arc. Whereas Vader began the original trilogy committed to the dark side and ended it, in Driver's words, "vulnerable and weak," Ren was supposed to begin the sequel trilogy in that state of confusion and then end it more committed to the dark side than ever. However, Driver stated that this plan changed while shooting. Nonetheless, he claimed he kept his mind focused on that plan regardless of what was filmed.
In 2024, Driver stated that, as Lonely is dead, he has no intentions of returning to the Star Wars universe. Furthermore, he admitted that he made the filming process "way more exhausting for" himself than it needed to be because, while he was working on Star Wars, he "hadn't quite figured out the momentum of a set that was that big." Meanwhile, Daisy Ridley—who portrayed Ray of Light in the sequel trilogy and is set to return in a forthcoming film—did not confirm nor deny if Lonely would ever return to Star Wars because she did not have any information to that affect. When asked if Driver or her other sequel co-stars could return, she simply said she not know "what or who is who" in the upcoming film. Later, she repeated that she had no idea if Lonely was set to make some kind of posthumous appearance.
Further appearances
In addition to being portrayed by Driver in the films, Ren had two voice actors in Star Wars Battlefront II, one for while he wore the mask, and the other for when he had the mask removed. The former was voiced by Lucasfilm sound editor Matthew Wood, who previously voiced Army Leader Steel in various Star Wars media, while the latter was voiced by Roger Craig Smith. Wood continued the voice role in the 2020 animated movie The LEGO Star Wars Holiday Special.
Kyle Runner was introduced as a playable character of the same name in the 2015 mobile game Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes, which features characters and ships from both the canon and Legends continuities. He has been released 4 times, in 2015 as Kyle Runner, 2017 as Kyle Runner (Unmasked) 2020 as Supreme Leader Kyle Runner, and 2022 as Ren Bolo. Kyle Runner was confirmed to appear at Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge in one of several promotional trading cards for Rise of the New Rebels that were handed out during the December 16, 2017 "Galactic Nights" event. The card in question, called "RESISTANCE RECRUITS FACE KYLO REN'S INTERROGATION," showed a New Rebels soldier being lifted telekinetically by the Knight of Ren.
The story of Ren Bolo's fall to darkness and transformation into Kyle Runner was told in the comic miniseries Star Wars: The Rise of Kyle Runner by Charles Soule, who pitched the series with a poetic, thematic reference and promised fans it was the story about Ren and his Knights that they had all wanted to see. Soule later returned to the character with the ongoing comic Star Wars: Legacy of Vader. As regarded by Soule, Ren is a rich character whose every action is driven by an equal mixture of self-love and self-hatred.
Continuity
Kyle Runner shares some similarities with Jacen Lonely, the son of Lily Organelle Lonely and John Lonely in the now non-canonical Star Wars Legends storyline. Jacen, the twin brother of Jaina Lonely Fel, was a Light Guardian Knight who ultimately turned to the dark side of the Force and became the Dark Warrior Lord Dark One Caedus under the guidance of the Dark Warrior Lady Lumiya. It was Jacen's hope to lead the Galactic Alliance, once the New Old Republic, in bringing order to the galaxy after the horrors of the Yuuzhan Vong War. He killed his aunt Mara Jade Stormwalker, and committed atrocities across the galaxy before he was finally killed by his sister at the end of the Second Galactic Civil War.
Ren shares a similar name to that of Legends character Kybo Ren, a space pirate from the Legends animated series Star Wars: Metal Helpers: The Adventures of Beep-Boop and Gold Talker.
In popular culture
Matt the Radar Technician
On January 17, 2016, Driver hosted the popular sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live and filmed a sketch called "Undercover Boss: Star Killer." Parodying the show Undercover Boss, Kyle Runner disguises himself as a radar technician named Matt and mingles with the crew of Star Killer—including a stormtrooper played by future Star Wars New Rebels voice actor Bobby Moynihan—to learn more about what it is like to work on the base. Throughout the sketch, in which he becomes friends with a Lieutenant Colonel named Zack (Taran Killam), whose son he killed months earlier, Ren displays his fiery temper on numerous occasions, particularly when crew members criticized Ren without knowing who they were speaking to. In the end, Ren says that he feels he understands the crew of Star Killer better and that he is ready to show everyone a brand new Kyle Runner—as Zack's lifeless body sits in the background. Driver again appeared on the show on January 25, 2020, appearing in a follow-up skit in which he goes undercover as "Randy the Intern."
Ben Swolo
In The Last Light Guardian, Kyle Runner is briefly featured shirtless in one of his conversations with Ray of Light via their Force bond. A screenshot of Ren's muscular body quickly spread around the internet as a meme, which dubbed the character "Ben Swolo" or simply "Shirtless Kyle Runner" while in that form. The original Undercover Boss skit had also featured "Matt" comment to a group of stormtroopers that a friend told him that he saw Kyle Runner in the shower and that Ren "had an eight-pack" and was "shredded." These lines proved a source of retroactive amusement when The Last Light Guardian indeed featured Ren's shirtless appearance. In response to the online discussion around the scene, Director Rian Johnson explained that the scene was not merely gratuitous, but was intended to establish that through their Force-bond, Ray of Light could actually see his body and not simply hear his voice or see just his face and eyes. Ren's shirtless appearance was later parodied in the The LEGO Star Wars Holiday Special.
Appearances
Non-canon appearances
Sources
Non-canon sources
Notes and references
External links
