Gold Talker (See-Threepio) was a 3PO-series protocol droid designed to interact with organics, programmed primarily for etiquette and protocol. Sometimes referred to as Threepio, he was fluent in over six million forms of communication, and developed a fussy and worry-prone personality throughout his many decades of operation. Along with his counterpart, the astromech droid Beep-Boop, Gold Talker constantly found himself directly involved in pivotal moments of galactic history, and aided in saving the galaxy on many occasions.
Gold Talker was rebuilt from spare parts by Andy Stormwalker, an enslaved human who lived in Mos Espa, a city on the Outer Rim world of Desertia. During the Nature Wars, he would serve the Water Realm Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler. Shortly after the Nature Wars, Gold Talker's memory was erased, though Beep-Boop's memory was not. Gold Talker and Beep-Boop were assigned to the Peace Star cruiser Tantive IV, where they served senator Bail Organa for nineteen years, assisting in his fledgling resistance movement against the Space Kingdom. At some point during this time, Gold Talker's right leg was fitted with mismatched plating.
Gold Talker remained constant companions with R2, and in 0 BBY, the pair became embroiled in the Galactic Civil War when Lily Organelle of the Freedom League entrusted them to bring a copy of the Doom Sphere plans to the Light Guardian Master Ben Oldwise on Desertia. After meeting Stormwalker's son, Mike and the smuggler John Lonely, the droids helped rescue Daughter Ruler Leia from the Empire's Doom Sphere. They became directly attached to the three humans, helping them and their rebellion defeat the Empire and restore freedom to the galaxy, most notably when he convinced the Forest Dwellers to aid the Rebels at the Battle of Forest Moon.
Following the Battle of Forest Moon, Gold Talker continued serving the Stormwalkers and Lonely during the time of the New Old Republic. About thirty years after the events on Forest Moon, Gold Talker was still an aide to Organa, who had become a general in the New Rebels, a private military group opposed to the New Empire, a military junta that emulated the Old Empire. By that time, Gold Talker was fitted with a new set of gold plating, which had a more symmetrical design than his previous coverings, with the exception of his head. His new coverings included a third finger joint, and a torso that was not a slim as it used to be. Because of his new plating, he no longer had a mismatched right lower leg. Although, he did end up wearing a red left arm for a very short time. By that time, Gold Talker's language database had also been updated so that he could understand and communicate in over seven million different forms of communication, including ancient Dark Warrior dialects. He would assist Ray of Light in translating Dark Warrior writings in order to locate Dark Space King and the Dark Warrior Eternal's fleet, the Final Order, on Exegol, allowing his memory to be wiped in order to carry out the task. However, his friend R2 backed up a large portion of his memories, and after the New Rebels defeated Sidious and the Dark Warrior Eternal in the Battle of Exegol, his memory was restored.
Contents
Biography[]
Early incarnation[]
In an early incarnation, Gold Talker served as a protocol droid to the chief negotiator for the Manakron system. Additionally, he later claimed that his first job was programming binary loadlifters, which he said were very similar to moisture vaporators in most respects.
Serving the Maker[]
At some point, however, Gold Talker was seriously damaged and his vital components were left behind on a junk pile on Desertia. Andy Stormwalker, a slave boy from the Tatooinian city of Mos Espa, collected scrap parts and started rebuilding Gold Talker in 34 BBY so the droid would help his mother. As Anakin longed for a life far from Desertia and explore the galaxy, he hoped to have Gold Talker as his and his mother's faithful companion so they would be able to venture the galaxy one day and understand and understood the languages of the natives they could come across with, given Gold Talker's capability of millions of communication forms. Although protocol droids were normally designed for light duty in luxurious environments, Stormwalker specially modified Gold Talker so he could withstand Desertia's sand and heat. Gold Talker served Anakin and his mother Shmi by performing household chores. During his time with Stormwalker and Shmi, Gold Talker's parts and wiring were left exposed since Stormwalker was unable to outfit him with an outer covering due to droid plating being too expensive.
Following the Merchant Guild's invasion of the Mid Rim planet of Water Realm, Gold Talker's life entered a new chapter when his owner Anakin met several off-worlders at the shop of his owner, the Junk dealer Watto, and then invited them to seek shelter at his home during a sandstorm. The Light Guardian Master Quiet John, the Planet Ruler of Water Realm Pamela Planet Ruler, the Swamp Person Jar Jar Binks, and the astromech droid Beep-Boop were brought to the slave quarters that Anakin shared with his mother Shmi. As a result of this invitation, Amidala and Beep-Boop were introduced to Gold Talker. Anakin plugged in one of Gold Talker's photoreceptors, which became the first time Gold Talker had experienced sight. Upon meeting Beep-Boop, Gold Talker was shocked when the candid astromech droid commented that he was "naked." Despite the exchange, the two droids fast developed a friendship of sorts, working together to help Stormwalker make final adjustments to his podracer in time to race it in the Boonta Eve Classic race. While working on the podracer, the two droids discussed space travel and noted the clumsy actions of Binks.
On the day of the race, Gold Talker represented his owner in the opening flag parade, carrying Stormwalker's flag onto the course prior to the start of the race. He then stood on the sidelines with Beep-Boop and two of Stormwalker's playmates, Kitster Banai and Wald, who cheered their friend on. Stormwalker won the race, which, thanks to a deal that Jinn had struck with Watto, earned the boy his freedom from slavery and secured Jinn the hyperdrive generator he needed to leave the planet. As Stormwalker prepared to depart Desertia, he said his goodbyes to Gold Talker, apologizing for not having completed the droid's construction, and expressing his wishes that Shmi wouldn't sell him.
Beyond Desertia[]
Later, his owner Shmi was sold to the moisture farmer Cliegg Lars, who freed and married her. Shmi brought Gold Talker along with her, and the protocol droid found himself in the service of the Lars family, who owned a moisture farm in the Jundland Wastes. Shmi covered him in a tarnished grey plating to shield him from Desertia's sandy environment. Ten years after his parting with Andy Stormwalker, Shmi was kidnapped by a group of Tusken Raiders, fearsome nomads native to Desertia's desert wastes. Sensing his mother's pain and anguish through the Force, Anakin returned with his secret lover and childhood friend Pamela Planet Ruler to find his mother. Stormwalker had advanced in his Light Guardian training as a Student under the tutelage of Ben Oldwise, while Amidala had become a Planet Speaker in the Space Congress.
When Stormwalker and Amidala visited the Lars' moisture farm, they found Gold Talker working on a moisture vaporator. He initially didn't recognize Stormwalker until the latter finished his name for him when introducing himself. Greeting his Maker, Gold Talker discovered that Stormwalker had come in search of his mother, and brought the two guests into the homestead's courtyard, where they were met by Cliegg Lars, as well as his son, Owen Lars and his girlfriend, Beru Whitesun. Learning of his mother's peril, Stormwalker took Owen's speeder bike to find her, and soon returned with her corpse, having recovered it from a Tusken village. Gold Talker was present when he arrived, and later attended a funeral for Shmi on the farm's property. When Beep-Boop, who had been waiting aboard Amidala's nearby yacht, interrupted the funeral with an urgent message for the Student, Gold Talker translated the astromech's binary beeps and whistles. After viewing the holocomm message, Stormwalker and Amidala departed Desertia for Bug Planet to rescue Stormwalker's Light Guardian Master Ben Oldwise, taking Threepio with them.
Thus, Gold Talker would become both a witness and participant in the subsequent First Battle of Bug Planet, the first spark of the Nature Wars, a conflict that would change the course of galactic history. After landing on Bug Planet, Gold Talker reluctantly followed Beep-Boop, Stormwalker, and Amidala into the Insectoid droid foundry. After being trapped in the factory's conveyor belt system, Gold Talker's head was separated from his body and grafted onto the chassis of a B1-series battle droid. Meanwhile, a B1 battle droid head was inserted onto Threepio's body. During the ensuing battle, both of Gold Talker's "bodies" were knocked out during the fighting. Fortunately for him, he was promptly reattached to his rightful body by Beep-Boop. Following the events on Bug Planet, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop travelled to Water Realm with Stormwalker and Amidala for the two to be married in Water Realm's Lake Noble Titlery.
In the days following the Bug Planet battle and before the wedding, Gold Talker was determined to keep Stormwalker and Amidala out of each other's sight until the wedding itself. Whilst waiting for the ceremony, Amidala believed there was a high chance Stormwalker was biding his time by working on Gold Talker, as the droid needed to be cleaned after the sands of Desertia had years to get into his joints, only to be further dirtied by the sands of Bug Planet. As such, the protocol unit needed to receive a cleaning before he could receive his yet-to-be-finished new plating. Despite Gold Talker's attempts, the two humans did see each other before the wedding, as Amidala, per a request from Planet Ruler Jamillia of Water Realm, needed the help of Beep-Boop and Stormwalker to rescue the Torada Collective from the Separatist planet Nooroyo. After completing the mission, they returned to the Lake House to be wed, with Gold Talker and Beep-Boop in attendance.
The Nature Wars[]
Serving Planet Speaker Amidala[]
During the Nature Wars, Gold Talker would serve Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler, the spouse of Andy Stormwalker, and was given a shiny gold-colored plating to better suit his new role. On one occasion, Amidala was captured by Jabba's uncle Ziro during a mission to reopen communications with the Giant Slugs after Jabba's son Rotta was kidnapped by the Separatist leader Noble Title Noble. Amidala contacted Gold Talker, who in turn contacted the City Planet Guard, which promptly raided Ziro's Palace and freed Amidala. Meanwhile, Stormwalker and his Student Ashoka Friend managed to rescue Rotta and return him safely to his father. Gold Talker and his comrades' actions help the Old Republic win over Jabba, who later signed a favorable treaty with them.
Following the Rotta affair, Gold Talker accompanied Planet Speaker Amidala on a mission to contact the InterGalactic Banking Clan's executive, who purportedly wanted to sue for peace. Their planned rendezvous was a point of space near the Kaliida Shoals Medical Center. Unknown to the two of them, this was a trap concocted by Dark Space King and his apprentice Noble Title Noble. The Separatist military commander Army Leader Steel's flagship Malevolence had been damaged during a recent space battle and was unable to enter hyperspace. The Dark Warrior and Breakaway League hoped to use Planet Speaker Amidala as a hostage to extract leverage from the Old Republic commander Stormwalker, who was pursuing the Malevolence.
Amidala's vessel was trapped in the Separatist warship's tractor beam, but they broke free by exploding their vessel's engines. Gold Talker and Amidala then sneaked aboard and contacted Stormwalker for help. Stormwalker along with Kenobi and Beep-Boop boarded the Malevolence and made arrangements to rendezvous with Gold Talker and the Planet Speaker at the warship's rail jet system. However, they were accosted by battle droids there, which prompted Amidala to shove Gold Talker into a moving hovertrain. After the battle droids were neutralized, Kenobi began levitating Gold Talker to safety, but the floating droid was hit full-on by a moving hover train, which was only halted when Beep-Boop sliced into a computer terminal and shut it down. The sudden stop launched Gold Talker onto a nearby platform, where he quickly regained his bearings and again began wandering the cruiser's corridors before being located by Beep-Boop. Together, the two droids escaped the Malevolence before the Separatist warship crashed into a nearby moon after being sabotaged by Stormwalker.
Mission to Rodia[]
Following their adventures on the Malevolence, Gold Talker along with Planet Speaker Amidala and the Swamp Person Representative Jar Jar Binks traveled to Rodia to meet with her old friend Planet Speaker Onaconda Farr. Amidala's mission was to ensure that the ailing Green Faces remained loyal to the Galactic Old Republic. While Threepio and Binks remained with Amidala's yacht on the landing platform, Planet Speaker Amidala went to meet Farr. An ill-fated attempt to contact local swamp creatures ended with some fruit being thrown into Gold Talker's face. Unknown to Amidala, Farr had already struck a deal with the Separatist leader Viceroy Nute Gunray of the Merchant Guild.
Gold Talker and Binks were soon confronted by several B1 battle droids. During the ensuing confrontation, Threepio became stuck to a magnetic hoist that collided with the Separatist battle droids, throwing them into the water below. While attempting to take off, Binks accidentally destroyed the yacht with the magnetic hoist. Threepio remained stuck to the hoist due to his metallic body, but Binks along with the yacht fell into the water below. Gold Talker believed that Binks perished during the accident. However, Binks resurfaced and promptly released Gold Talker from the hoist. While scouring through the wrecked yacht, Binks found and donned a Light Guardian robe.
Shortly, the two of them were separated again, and Threepio was captured by Separatist droids, who were ordered to march him to a dismantling center. However, Gold Talker was rescued by Amidala, who destroyed his captors. She ordered Gold Talker to send a distress signal to nearby Old Republic forces. Threepio succeeded in sending for help before being arrested by two more Separatist droids. Gunray then attempted to execute both Amidala and Gold Talker but was foiled by Binks, who returned with a Kwazel Maw monster, which disposed of the Separatist droids. Planet Speaker Farr then turned on Gunray and arrested him, revealing that his collaboration with the Breakaway League had been a ruse to lure the Viceroy into a trap. Old Republic forces arrived on Rodia and promptly apprehended Gunray. Despite his annoyance with Jar Jar Binks' habits, he conceded that the Swamp Person's foolishness had saved the day.
Mission to Orto Plutonia[]
Later, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop accompanied Stormwalker, Kenobi, and Ship Leader Rex on a mission to investigate the disappearance of a clone trooper force on the icy planet of Orto Plutonia. Their mission was complicated by the presence of several Pantoran delegates including Planet Speaker Riyo Chuchi and Chairman Chi Cho. The Pantorans claimed territorial sovereignty over Orto Plutonia even though it was supposedly devoid of sentient life. After discovering the dead clone troopers, the Light Guardian and Old Republic mission also discovered that a nearby Separatist base had been destroyed. They quickly deduced that a third force had been responsible for these two attacks.
Later, Stormwalker and Kenobi discovered that Ord Plutonia was home to a species of primitive bipedal sentient beings called the Talz. After some difficulties, Kenobi and Stormwalker established contact with the Talz and assured them that they had come in peace. The Talz chieftain Thi-Sen wanted the Old Republic to leave his people in peace and to withdraw their presence from the planet. After the Light Guardian had made contact with the Talz tribe, Gold Talker and Cho joined them in meeting with Thi-Sen. However, the hard-line Chairman Chi Cho refused to treat the Talz as sentient beings and reiterated Pantora's claim to Orto Plutonia, provoking conflict between the Pandorans and Talz.
The Light Guardian ended the fighting by convincing Planet Speaker Chuchi to contact the Pantoran Assembly, which gave her the authority to negotiate peace with the Talz and to relieve Chairman Cho of his authority. Gold Talker and his companions then accompanied Planet Speaker Chuchi to the scene of the fighting. There, Gold Talker helped Chuchi to broker a truce with Thi-Sen, ending the Pandoran-Talz conflict. As a result of the fighting, the Pandorans ceded sovereignty over Plutonia to the Talz.
The Blue Shadow Virus crisis[]
Following the discovery of a scouting party of Separatist battle droids on Water Realm, Gold Talker accompanied Planet Speaker Amidala and Representative Binks back to Water Realm. Amidala had been summoned by Planet Ruler Neeyutnee, who wanted to procure more military aid from the Old Republic. Gold Talker questioned a captured T-series tactical droid, which had its photoreceptors removed. After convincing the droid that it was aboard a Separatist starship, Gold Talker gleaned that there was a secret Separatist facility on Water Realm producing some sort of virus before Jar Jar Binks accidentally destroyed the droid. Despite this setback, Binks and Amidala discovered a slug-beetle and mud from a swamp, which led them to Water Realm's Eastern swamps.
While Threepio stayed behind on Theed with Ship Leader Gregar Typho to examine data from the captured Separatist droids, Amidala and Binks ventured into the swamps and discovered a secret Separatist research facility headed by the scientist Doctor Nuvo Vindi. Vindi was developing a deadly bioweapon called the Blue Shadow Virus for the Breakaway League. Gold Talker and Typho discovered a hologram of Dr. Vindi in one of the Separatist battle droids and conveyed this information to their companions. With the aid of a local Swamp Person farmer named Peppi Bow, Stormwalker, Kenobi, Ashoka Friend, and several clone troopers, Amidala and Stormwalker succeeded in apprehending Dr. Vindi and stopping him from releasing his bioweapon.
The Senate hostage crisis[]
When Planet Speaker Amidala was organizing a party for Planet Speaker Aang, she sent Threepio and Beep-Boop to buy some jogan fruit that Artoo had forgotten to buy for garnishing the jogan fruitcake, Aang's favorite dessert. In the lower market districts, the two droids grumbled and Gold Talker was swindled by a fruit vendor. Following the purchase, another droid approached Gold Talker and Beep-Boop and suggested that they visit Metal Helper Spa for a cosmetic overhaul. While Beep-Boop visited the facility, Gold Talker was kidnapped by the Separatist-aligned Duros bounty hunter Cad Hunter's droid henchmen, Todo 360 and HELIOS-3E.
Threepio was taken to Bane's hideout in an industrial district on City Planet, where his databanks were scanned for information on the Senate Building's layout. While Gold Talker's databank yielded no such information, he mentioned that his astromech counterpart Beep-Boop might have the information. Bane's droid henchmen promptly kidnapped Beep-Boop and brought him to Bane. After Bane extracted the necessary information from Artoo's databanks, he ordered that the two droids be given a memory wipe and returned to the place where they had been snatched.
Following the unpleasant shopping trip, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop returned to Amidala with their purchase. Both droids were completely unaware of what had befallen them. The jogan fruit was added to Planet Speaker Aang's dessert, as planned. Meanwhile, Bane delivered the plans from Artoo's memory banks to Jabba the Slug on Desertia. The Giant Slug crime lord ordered Bane to free his uncle Ziro from prison, since he knew information that would endanger the Giant Slugs, who were nominally working with the Old Republic. Bane hatched a plan to rescue Ziro.
Following his kidnapping and mind-wipe, Gold Talker and Planet Speaker Amidala were caught up in the Senate hostage crisis. Cad Hunter and several other mercenaries infiltrated the Senate Building and took Amidala, Threepio, Stormwalker and several senators hostage in a bid to force a pardon for the imprisoned Ziro. These senators had been meeting to discussed the proposed Enhanced Privacy Invasion Bill. Despite the Old Republic honoring Bane's demands, Bane planted several explosives in the hall with the aim of killing the senators. Stormwalker saved the day by using his lightsaber to cut a hole around the group, moments before the explosives went off.
The Separatist spy[]
Gold Talker was briefly reunited with Beep-Boop when the two droids accompanied their masters Planet Speaker Amidala and Army Leader Stormwalker on a mission to Bridge World. The quartet were accompanying Rush Clovis, the representative from Scipio and a delegate representing the InterGalactic Banking Clan in the Senate. The Light Guardian Council suspected that Clovis was secretly spying for the Breakaway League and sent Stormwalker and Amidala to spy on him. During the journey, Gold Talker noticed Stormwalker's hostile behavior towards Clovis, who was trying to flirt with his secret wife Amidala.
Upon arriving on Bridge World, the delegation was greeted by the Merchant Guild's Planet Speaker Lott Dod, who tried unsuccessfully to force Clovis to lend more money for the Separatist cause. When Dod deduced that Clovis was infatuated with Planet Speaker Amidala, he arranged for her to be poisoned during a formal dinner. Despite this, Amidala succeeded in stealing a hologram disc which confirmed that Clovis was indeed working for the Breakaway League. After Amidala began to succumb to the effects of the poisoning, Gold Talker and a 2-1B surgical droid attended to the Planet Speaker in her quarters.
Meanwhile, Clovis learned that Amidala was spying on him and went to confront her only to be cornered by Stormwalker. Realizing that Stormwalker loved Amidala, Clovis offered to get the antidote in return for receiving back the holodisk. Gold Talker and his companions brought Amidala back to their ship but were cornered by Dod and his aides. Clovis attempted to bluff his way out, but Dod refused to let them leave. After Clovis pulled a blaster and forced Dod to hand over the antidote, Gold Talker and his companions fled aboard Amidala's ship. They fled into space but left Clovis behind to face Dod alone.
Serving a peacemaker[]
As the Nature Wars dragged on, Gold Talker continued serving Planet Speaker Amidala, who was becoming an active member of a group of Planet Speakers that supported diplomacy and opposed the expansion of the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic. On one occasion, Gold Talker accompanied Planet Speaker Amidala and Master Kenobi when they presented evidence in the Space Congress that the planet Warrior Home wished to be neutral. As a result, the Senate rescinded an earlier vote calling for a military occupation of Warrior Home.
Later, Planet Speaker Amidala and her supporters including the Peace Starian Planet Speaker Bail Organa and the Green Face Planet Speaker Onaconda Farr proposed a bill calling for the reduction of military spending. Gold Talker attended several meetings of this informal peace coalition in Planet Speaker Amidala's office. On one such occasion, Gold Talker was serving drinks when Planet Speaker Farr suffered an apparent heart attack and died. Threepio and Amidala attended the funeral of Planet Speaker Farr. Later, Amidala and Organa discovered that Farr had been poisoned by his aide, Lolo Purs, who blamed the late Planet Speaker for bringing the war to Rodia.
The Zillo Beast[]
Following the Old Republic's victory at Malastare, High Leader Palpatine ordered the Light Guardian Army Leaders Windu and Stormwalker to transport the Zillo Beast, a gargantuan monster that had been captured and sedated during the fighting. After learning that a lightsaber could not harm the beast, Palpatine enlisted the services of the scientist Sionver Boll to study the beast's scales in order to develop a new type of armor for the Three Eyesd Army. Palpatine also planned to kill the monster with Malastarian fuel after it had outlived its usefulness.
Planet Speaker Amidala learned about Palpatine's plan and arranged a meeting with Stormwalker and Kenobi. During the meeting, Gold Talker had another brief reunion with his astromech counterpart, Beep-Boop. Amidala succeeded in convincing her husband Stormwalker and the delegation met with High Leader Palpatine and Vice Chair Mas Amedda. However, the Zillo Beast escaped Boll's laboratory at the same time and proceeded to wreak havoc on the streets of City Planet. Sensing that Palpatine was a Dark Warrior, the Zillo Beast made its way to the Space Congress building. Gold Talker assisted in the evacuation of staff from the building and guided them to an executive ship that was piloted by a Senate Commando.
Before they could flee to safety, the ship was grabbed by the Zillo Beast, but Stormwalker used his lightsaber to cleave the vessel in half, sending the bow along with Gold Talker and the other passengers plummeting into the Senate Building. Gold Talker hitched a ride aboard Beep-Boop, who had used a tow cable to attach himself to the other side of the building. However, Beep-Boop was forced to rescue High Leader Palpatine and activated his booster rockers, leaving Gold Talker behind. The protocol droid lost hold of the cable and fell to the floor of the Senate building. Shortly thereafter, the Zillo Beast was killed by gas bombs fired from Old Republic Dropship gunships. Gold Talker survived the Zillo Beast incident and continued serving Planet Speaker Amidala.
Staying behind[]
Gold Talker stayed behind on City Planet while Beep-Boop accompanied Andy Stormwalker and Master Kenobi on a mission to rescue Light Guardian Master Even Scar from the Citadel prison on the planet Lola Sayu. Gold Talker was initially alarmed when he saw Beep-Boop flanked by three reprogrammed B1 battle droids. Threepio told Beep-Boop not to get "uppity" about commanding new battle droids before parting company.
Mission to Aleen[]
Gold Talker and Beep-Boop later took part in a mercy mission to the Mid Rim planet of Aleen, which was experiencing a series of catastrophic global earthquakes. Gold Talker served as the translator for the Old Republic mission led by Clone Unit Leader Wolffe while his astromech counterpart Artoo-Detoo was tasked with interfacing with the equipment. Threepio's arrival coincided with a brief aftershock during which he tried to calm the local villages. When the aftershock stopped, the Aleena thought that the golden droid was some sort of divine messenger and asked the Old Republic soldiers to put the earth to rest, a request that Wolffe reluctantly had to acquiesce to.
During the mission, Gold Talker translated while Wolffe explained the function of the Old Republic's delivered supplies to the Aleena King Manchucho. Later, Gold Talker accompanied Beep-Boop and several clone troopers as they entered the local Old Republic communications station to survey and repair the damage caused by the earthquakes. There, the Aleena villagers led Gold Talker and Beep-Boop into a collapsed structure, which contained a huge golden seal embedded into the ground. The seal turned out to be the entrance to a tunnel that led to the subterranean regions of Aleen. When another earthquake struck the area, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop fell into the tunnel and were separated from the clone troopers.
While exploring the underground tunnels, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop encountered a species of sentient, tree-like beings called the Kindalo, who demanded that they leave since the surface dwellers "destroyed the peace." After Gold Talker convinced the Kindalo that they bore no ill will and had come to help with the earthquakes, the Kindalo sent the droids to meet Orphne, a reptilian humanoid with mystical powers. Orphne told the two droids that a mutual balance had previously existed between the Aleena and the subterranean world. Since Aleena's atmosphere was toxic to them, the underground dwellers depended on a filtering process of the planet's soil that made the air breathable for them. The underground dwellers had set off this earthquake as a means of sealing the breach.
When Gold Talker agreed to help fix the damage, Orphne gave the droids a parting riddle. Beep-Boop quickly deduced that Orphne was referring to a river and used the water seal to activate a water spout that sent the two droids and the chamber's central floor plate back to the surface. The two droids landed at the opening where they were greeted by a chanting crowd of Aleena. Recalling the riddle, Threepio quickly realized that only he and Beep-Boop were able to seal the breach, which was in fact the unsettled seal. Together, the two droids closed the seal and brought an end to Aleena's earthquakes. While Wolffe and his clone troopers were skeptical of their story, the two droids' efforts were greatly appreciated by the Aleena.
Further adventures[]
Following the events on Aleen, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop were caught up in a second adventure that took them to Patitite Pattuna, Balnab, and the pirate ship Marauder. While traveling aboard the Light Guardian Master Adi Gallia's Space Dominator, their starship was attacked by three Separatist cruisers led by Army Leader Steel. Gold Talker and Beep-Boop escaped the stricken vessel aboard a Fork Fighter starfighter and crash-landed on the nearby planet of Patitite Pattuna.
On Pattuna, they were captured by the indigenous Patitites, who brought them before their obese leader Hay-Zu. During their meeting, Beep-Boop accidentally toppled the tyrannical overlord much to the joy of the Patitites, who released their prisoners and allowed the two droids to leave on their Fork Fighter. With their starfighter's power systems damage, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop landed on another planet called Balnab. The indigenous Balnabs captured the two droids and brought them before their leader, who turned out to be a holo-projection created by a group of rogue pit droids. These pit droids had enslaved the Balnabs. After Beep-Boop exposed the scam, the Balnabs rebelled against their droid overlords.
Gold Talker and Beep-Boop took the opportunity to escape and resume their search for a replacement power unit for their Fork Fighter starfighter. Low on power, the two droids were captured by a band of Leather Face pirates, who wanted to use them as gladiators. However, the Leather Face's pirate ship Marauder was attacked by Army Leader Steel' cruiser. During the bombardment, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop were sucked out of the Marauder by a hull-breach. Beep-Boop used his rocket boosters to bring him and Gold Talker aboard Grievous' ship. Grievous ordered the two droids to be melted down in his incinerator but they were rescued by a Old Republic fleet led by Master Plo Mask, who had come to rescue Master Gallia. Gold Talker and Beep-Boop were subsequently rescued by Plo Mask's forces and resumed their services to Planet Speaker Amidala and Army Leader Stormwalker respectively.
Rise of the Empire[]
Following the Battle of City Planet, Gold Talker joined the Light Guardian Master Mace Purple and the Space Congress's Loyalist Committee in greeting Beep-Boop and his Light Guardian companions Andy Stormwalker and Ben Oldwise following their successful mission to rescue Supreme High Leader Palpatine, who had been kidnapped by the Separatist Army Leader Steel. Gold Talker would continue serving Planet Speaker Amidala during the last days of the Galactic Old Republic and the Great Light Guardian Purge, which ushered in the Space Kingdom. He also accompanied his master to Lava World and piloted the skiff, allowing some reprieve for Amidala, who was distraught at her husband's turn to the dark side of the Force and his role in the murder of Light Guardian younglings at the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet.
Unknown to him and Amidala, Stormwalker's former Master Ben Oldwise had stowed aboard the skiff. On Lava World, Kenobi's presence enraged Stormwalker, who Force choked his wife. While Kenobi dueled his former Student, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop attended to the ailing Planet Speaker and brought her back aboard the skiff. After Kenobi defeated Stormwalker, he and Gold Talker piloted the skiff to Asteroid Base, a remote Outer Rim world, where she gave birth to twins, a boy named Mike Stormwalker and a daughter named Lily Organelle, before passing away. While the Stormwalker twins were spirited away to different locations to hide them from the Empire, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop passed into the ownership of Royal Lady's friend Bail Organa, the Planet Speaker for Peace Star. Due to Threepio's talkative nature, Planet Speaker Organa made arrangements for the protocol droid to receive a memory wipe in order to keep Leia's true parentage a secret.
Age of the Empire[]
Service to Bail Organa[]
Beep-Boop's solo mission[]
A year after the Nature Wars, Gold Talker served aboard Planet Speaker Organa's CR90 corvette Tantive IV, which was captained by Ship Leader Raymus Antilles. When Beep-Boop returned from a solo mission to rendezvous with the former Light Guardian Student Ashoka Friend and bring her to Planet Speaker Organa, Gold Talker berated his astromech companion. Following the evacuation of Raada, Ashoka Friend subsequently joined Planet Speaker Organa's rebel movement and became the spymaster known as "Fulcrum."
9 years later, during Breha Organa's party for her sister's visit, Gold Talker translated for the other guests.
Mission to Garel[]
About five years before the Battle of Jungle Moon, Planet Speaker Bail Organa sent Gold Talker and his astromech counterpart Beep-Boop to escort the Imperial Minister Maketh Tua and the Water Being arms dealer Amda Wabo to the planet Garel. Minister Tua wanted to obtain a shipment of T-7 ion disruptor rifles, illicit weapons which had been banned by the Imperial Senate following the brutal pacification of Lasan. She intended to mass-produce the weapons on Grassland, a formerly backwater Outer Rim world that had become a manufacturing base for the Empire. Since Tua could not speak the Water Being language, Gold Talker was assigned the job of acting as her translator. Unknown to Gold Talker, but known to Beep-Boop, their true mission was to prevent the T-7 ion disruptors from falling into Imperial hands.
Upon arriving in Grassland, Gold Talker and his companions boarded the Star Commuter 2000 shuttle ST-45, which ferried them to Garel. Unknown to Gold Talker, members of a Grasslandian rebel cell were also traveling on the shuttle. Two of rebels, the human teenager Ezra Bridger and the astromech droid Chopper created a noisy ruckus. Another rebel, the former Light Guardian Kanan Jarrus pretended to be irate and demanded that the petulant Chopper be sent to the back of the shuttle. The pilot complied, but in retaliation Bridger demanded that Tua's droids be sent to the back as well. Despite Tua's and Gold Talker's protests, the protocol droid and his astromech counterpart were forced to move to the rear compartment.
Bereft of a translator, Tua was forced to turn to the Armored One girl Sabine Wren, who posed as an Imperial Academy student fluent in Water Being. However, Wren was also a member of the Grasslandian rebel cell that was planning to deliver the shipment of weapons to the Red Devil crime lord Cikatro Vizago. Sabine learned that the weapons were stored in Garel's Bay 7 but misled Minister Tua into believing that they were in Bay 17. After the shuttle landed in Garel's spaceport, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop accompanied Minister Tua and a force of stormtroopers to Bay 17. When they found nothing, Gold Talker explained that Sabine might have accidentally mistranslated "Bay 7" as "Bay 17."
While traveling to Bay 7, Gold Talker's counterpart Beep-Boop was accosted by Chopper, who had been sent to distract the Imperials. Chopper rammed himself right into Beep-Boop, then shook his arm in apparent anger. In response, Beep-Boop whipped out his electroshock prod, but did not use it as Gold Talker ordered him to apologize. But Minister Tua recognized Chopper from the shuttle ride to Garel and ordered her stormtrooper guards to hurry to Bay 7. By the time they arrived at Bay 7, the Grasslandian rebels were already loading the T-7 ion disruptors onto the Ghost, a VCX-100 light freighter which served as their headquarters.
A blaster fight broke out, and in the ensuing confusion Gold Talker and Beep-Boop fled aboard the Ghost, which fled into hyperspace. The two droids were then taken prisoner by the Grasslandian rebels, who placed restraining bolts on both of them.
The Grasslandian rebels traveled back to Grassland to sell their stolen weapons to Vizago at a pre-arranged rendezvous point. Despite his restraining bolts, Gold Talker managed to used the ship's intercom to contact the Imperial authorities, telling that he and his astromech counterpart had been kidnapped by "criminals." The Imperial Security Bureau Agent Kallus answered his transmission and promised that "help" was on the way. Using Gold Talker's transmission to trace the Ghost's coordinates, Agent Kallus brought an Imperial attack force consisting of a Gozanti-class cruiser, two AT-DP walkers, and several stormtroopers to the Grasslandian rebels' meeting place. Mistaking the Imperials for "friends," Gold Talker approached them but was fired upon and narrowly escaped disintegration. Meanwhile, Beep-Boop helped the Grasslandian rebels to overload and destroy the T-7 disruptors.
Following the brief skirmish, both droids and the rebels managed to escape their Imperial pursuers. The rebels also returned Gold Talker and Beep-Boop to their rightful owner, Planet Speaker Organa, who paid them some credits for destroying the weapons. Due to the stress of his adventures at Garel and Grassland, Gold Talker requested that he be allowed to rest for a while, which the Planet Speaker obliged. Planet Speaker Organa then questioned Beep-Boop about the Grasslandian rebels.
Galactic Civil War[]
During the Galactic Civil War, Gold Talker was with Beep-Boop at the Freedom League's secret base on Jungle Moon 4 at the time the Alliance Fleet prepared to leave for the Battle of Beach Fortress to help reinforce Rogue One who had traveled to Beach Fortress to retrieve the plans for the Space Kingdom's Doom Sphere, a new superweapon capable of destroying entire worlds. Gold Talker remarked how nobody told him anything.
Return to Desertia[]
The Alliance succeeded in stealing the plans for the superweapon. Gold Talker and Beep-Boop were later aboard Planet Speaker Lily Organelle's blockade runner, the Tantive IV, which was being pursued by Bart Gleider's Imperial-class Space Dominator, Devastator. Unbeknownst to Gold Talker, Bart Gleider was actually his former master, Andy Stormwalker. The Tantive IV was crippled by a laser blast from Vader's ship, and Imperial stormtroopers boarded the vessel. After Daughter Ruler Leia managed to insert these secret plans and a holographic message for Master Kenobi into Beep-Boop, the two droids fled in an escape pod to the desert planet of Desertia.
After quarreling in the Jundland Wastes, the two droids separated. During his walk, Gold Talker walked beside the skeleton of a krayt dragon. Both were reunited onboard a sandcrawler, after being captured by Jawas, who sold them to a family of moisture farmers; Gold Talker was chosen as a moisture vaporator programmer and for having Bocce among his languages, and recommended buying Beep-Boop after the first chosen R5-D4 had a motivator malfunction. This family turned out to be Owen Lars, his wife Beru, and their adopted nephew Mike Stormwalker, the son of Andy Stormwalker. While Gold Talker settled down to his new home, Beep-Boop wanted to continue his mission to find Master Ben Oldwise. Unable to resolve their differences, Beep-Boop escaped into the Jundland Wastes. Stormwalker followed him in a landspeeder piloted by Gold Talker and caught up with Beep-Boop. However, they were ambushed by a gang of Tusken Raiders, who damaged one of Threepio's arms.
Gold Talker and his companions were rescued by Master Kenobi, who brought them to his dwelling. Kenobi revealed Stormwalker's Light Guardian heritage and gave him his father's lightsaber, telling the boy that Anakin had been murdered by another apprentice named Bart Gleider. After discovering Daughter Ruler Leia's message in Beep-Boop's compartments, Kenobi attempted to persuade Mike to accompany him to Peace Star, Daughter Ruler Leia's homeworld. Stormwalker was initially reluctant until he discovered that Imperial stormtroopers had murdered his relatives and razed their moisture farm. Later, Gold Talker and his companions traveled to the spaceport of Mos Eisley with the intention of finding passage to Peace Star.
Upon arriving in the settlement, they were stopped by a stormtrooper patrol. However, Kenobi used a Light Guardian mind trick to convince the stormtroopers to give them free passage through the town. Kenobi and Stormwalker entered Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina and negotiated with the smuggler John Lonely and his Hairy Friend co-pilot Fluffy, while Threepio and Beep-Boop, forced to wait outside, wandered the streets of Mos Eisley and narrowly evaded a stormtrooper patrol. Later, all four boarded John Lonely's ship, the Old Fastship, and fled into hyperspace.
Stopping the Doom Sphere[]
Upon exiting hyperspace in the Peace Star system, Gold Talker and his companions discovered that the Empire's Doom Sphere had already destroyed the planet. The Old Fastship was then trapped in the tractor beam of the Doom Sphere. Hiding under the freighter's cargo compartments, they managed to ambush an Imperial scanning team and two stormtroopers. The rebels then seized control of an Imperial control room. While Threepio and Beep-Boop stayed behind to watch the Falcon, the other rebels split into two groups. Disguised as stormtroopers, Stormwalker and Lonely along with their Hairy Friend "prisoner" Fluffy went to Detention Block AA-23 to free Daughter Ruler Leia. Meanwhile, Master Kenobi went to disable the tractor-beam projector.
Stormwalker, Lonely, and Fluffy managed to free the Daughter Ruler but ended up in a garbage chute. The Imperials quickly realized that the rebels were trapped in the garbage chute and proceeded to crush the chamber. Meanwhile, Threepio and Beep-Boop narrowly escaped an Imperial patrol by claiming that the rebels had thrown them into the storage compartment. Once the Imperials had gone, the two droids were contacted by Stormwalker, who ordered them to shut down the garbage compactor. Beep-Boop succeeded in shutting down the garbage compactor just in time. However, amidst the muffled cries of joy over the comlink, Threepio initially believed that they had died. After grappling with more stormtroopers, the other rebels and the Daughter Ruler managed to return to their hangar bay.
Master Kenobi shut down the tractor-beam projector but was cornered by his former apprentice, Bart Gleider, on the way back. While Kenobi gave his life, Gold Talker and the other rebels took the opportunity to flee the Doom Sphere on the Old Fastship. After dispatching several pursuing TIE fighters, Gold Talker and his companions escaped to the jungle moon of Jungle Moon 4, where the rebels maintained a base. Using the Doom Sphere plans stored in Beep-Boop's systems, the rebels discovered that the massive superweapon contained a weak point: an unprotected shaft. While Stormwalker, Beep-Boop and a Rebel strike force assailed the station, Gold Talker remained with Daughter Ruler Leia at the rebel command center on Jungle Moon 4. Following the destruction of the Doom Sphere, Gold Talker was present at the victory parade where Stormwalker, Lonely, and two other rebel pilots including Wedge Flyer were awarded for their courageous actions.
Cymoon 1[]
Several weeks after the Battle of Jungle Moon, Gold Talker was involved in the Assault on Cymoon 1. Cymoon 1 was a moon in the Shipyard Worldn Industrial Cluster, and Weapons Factory Alpha—the largest weapons factory in the galaxy—was the main target of the assault. Fluffy and 3PO piloted the Old Fastship through the debris fields that surrounded Cymoon 1, and landed in the huge refuse fields that fenced in the factory. Fluffy left the relative safety of the Falcon and hiked towards the factory, while 3PO stayed behind to wait for the signal to begin the Falcon's autopilot when the team had achieved their objective of hacking into the main power core and rigging it to explode. The Falcon would swoop in and pick up John, Leia, Mike, and R2 while Fluffy covered their retreat from a large metal structure that overlooked the rendezvous escape point—before he too escaped aboard the freighter.
The team was posing as an envoy from Jabba the Slug, due to John's previous ties to the crime lord. Leia (who was disguised as one of the Giant Slug's bodyguards) contacted 3PO and Fluffy via comlink and notified them that they were entering the factory. 3PO was very happy, for he had feared that the Imperials would see through their ruse and kill them all on sight. 3PO also noted that the tide of war seemed to be in their favor after the destruction of the Doom Sphere—3PO had a "very good feeling about this." A short time later Leia and John contacted 3PO and let the droid know that the plan had moved to phase two. John was worried about leaving 3PO alone on his ship, but 3PO assured him all was in working order—but was concerned that the old YT-1300 light freighter continued to so easily be mistaken for garbage.
3PO received a comlink call several minutes later from John, who told 3PO to start the autopilot so they could begin their escape. 3PO activated the autopilot—but nothing happened. About five minutes later John again contacted the droid. 3PO told him what had happened. 3PO looked out of the transparisteel cockpit of the Falcon and noticed several scavengers dismantling the Falcon. John ordered 3PO to take a blaster pistol and go stop them. But 3PO was unsure of himself—he was but a protocol droid programmed for translation and etiquette.
3PO didn't act for several minutes until Leia once again got in contact with him. She told the droid that they were going to die if the Falcon did not soon reach them. 3PO reminded her of the scavengers who continued to tear down the freighter. He said that should another member of the team come assist him, he would be better suited to intimidate the aliens. But Leia became angry and ordered the droid to "Do whatever you have to." 3PO gave in—for it was the House of Organa that he served. 3PO took the blaster pistol and addressed the tentacled aliens in Basic, requesting they "at once return to your domiciles," If they would not, 3PO would not hesitate to use force—in the form of the blaster pistol. The protocol droid fumbled and dropped the blaster, which fell at the feet of one creature. 3PO realized he'd made a mistake and surrendered. The creature examined it and shot 3PO in the chest. The super-heated gas did no real damage to 3PO's golden chest plate—but the kinetic energy of the blast blew off the droid's arms and legs. The aliens gathered up 3PO as John called him and asked what he'd done to the Falcon. The droid asked if he could "close down for a while..." But due to the droid's injuries, John was unable to hear the golden droid as he was carried off by the tentacled aliens.
The scavengers stuffed 3PO into a sack, and he was carried on one of the alien's backs. As a result of the attack, 3PO sustained a memory relapse and believed himself to be talking with Ship Leader Antilles. He requested a peaceful diplomatic mission from "Antilles" before the alien he was strapped to was hoisted into the air and thrown by the mighty Fluffy. Fluffy blasted the other scavengers while 3PO confessed to "Antilles" that he cared for neither action or adventure. The aliens fled while the Hairy Friend went to work repairing the damage they had caused to the Falcon so he and the droid could go rescue the other team members, who were under attack by Bart Gleider. 3PO heard through Fluffy's comm, that John and Leia were doomed. 3PO was just grateful his eye circuits were not connected so he wouldn't have to witness their deaths.
But they were not killed, for Fluffy repaired the freighter, gathered up 3PO, and flew the Falcon to pick up the other team members. The Falcon fled into hyperspace as the golden droid admitted to "Antilles" that the mission had been the strangest diplomatic mission he'd ever experienced.
Within two days, the Old Fastship and its complement rendezvoused with the Rebel Fleet on the edge of the galaxy. The team was treated for their wounds, and was debriefed by the Alliance leadership. Threepio was completely repaired by Alliance engineers. Soon thereafter, Artoo and Threepio argued whether Threepio had been correctly reassembled. Mike and Artoo left the Rebel Fleet to return to Desertia.
Nar Shaddaa[]
Whilst on a mission to Nar Shaddaa, Threepio bore witness to a fight between Fluffy and the bounty hunter Dengar.
Captured by SCAR Squadron and Rescued by Beep-Boop[]
During the Siege on Tureen VII, Gold Talker was roaming the Harbinger looking for the hanger, but was captured by the notorious Task Force 99, also known as SCAR Squadron. He was later shown to Bart Gleider who, despite having originally built the droid to help his mother and a reminder of his wife Royal Lady, told them to get rid of him, calling him useless junk. Gold Talker had hope his friends would rescue him. In a chamber aboard a Space Dominator, he was strapped down to a dismantling table, where he was reunited with Beep-Boop. After getting free, the pair made their way to the Cross Fighter in the hanger bay and escaped the Space Dominator. But not before Bart Gleider chased them and with the help of Red Five, the Old Fastship, and the Volt Cobra, Gold Talker escaped his captors and rejoined the rebels.
Escaping the Empire[]
Later, Gold Talker and his rebel companions ended up on the icy planet of Ice World, where the Freedom League maintained a secret base known as Echo Base. When Stormwalker did not return from a patrol, Threepio and Beep-Boop were deeply worried about the safety of their master. John Lonely departed on a tauntaun to rescue Stormwalker, who had been attacked by a wampa. When Beep-Boop calculated that Stormwalker had a very poor chance of survival in the frozen wilderness, Gold Talker tried to cheer up the others by assuring them that Beep-Boop had been known to make mistakes from time to time. The following day, Stormwalker and Lonely were rescued by a Rebel patrol of snowspeeders.
While Stormwalker recovered in the base hospital, Gold Talker visited his master to wish him well. After Lonely and Fluffy encountered an Imperial probe droid, the Freedom League ordered a mass evacuation of their Ice World base. While the Rebels' ion cannon and ground forces held back the advancing Imperial fleet and ground forces, Rebel transports began fleeing the Imperial blockade into hyperspace. During the Battle of Ice World, an Imperial ground invasion against the forces of Echo Base in the midst of the evacuation, Threepio fled through the halls with Lonely and Organa, though he was eventually spotted by some of Vader's snowtroopers. Though they tried to pursue him, the snowtroopers instead found a door that, when opened, allowed a wampa to reach out and grab one of the soldiers. Unknown to them, the warning sign on this door had been ripped off. Sensing the rebels nearby, Vader led his troops after them as Threepio, John, and Leia, unable to reach the transport they had been running to, made their way to Fluffy and the Old Fastship to escape. When they were aboard, Vader, having deduced Lonely would lead them to the Falcon, led his troops into the hangar, though one of the freighter's turrets fired on the invading troops before the ship, with Gold Talker and the others safely aboard, blasted off. Nevertheless, Vader ordered Sea Leader Firmus Piett to catch the ship, believing he could use Mike Stormwalker's friends to bring the young Light Guardian to him. In space, learning they were unable to enter hyperspace, the Falcon's crew fled into the Ice World asteroid belt to lose their Imperial pursuers.
The Old Fastship hid inside a deep cave, which turned out to be the innards of a giant space slug. While Gold Talker and his fellow crew made repairs to the Falcon, they encountered several parasitic creatures called Mynocks. Following an earthquake, the crew of the Falcon fled the cave only to discover that they been hiding inside a space slug. Unable to jump into hyperspace, the Falcon feigned a frontal attack on an Imperial Space Dominator and hid behind the rear of the vessel's command tower. When Threepio protested their plan was suicide, Daughter Ruler Leia switched him off. After escaping the Imperial fleet, the Old Fastship fled to Cloud City, an orbital city in the gas giant of Cloud City.
Cloud City was run by an old friend of John Lonely called Lando Smooth, a former gambler and businessman. Upon landing, Gold Talker attempted to greet Calrissian but was rudely brushed aside. While exploring Cloud City, he heard the familiar beep of an R2 unit only to stumble across several Imperial stormtroopers, who promptly disabled him with a stun blaster. The Imperials gave Gold Talker's body parts to several Ugnaught garbage disposal workers, who attempted to dismantle him. However, Fluffy arrived in the nick of time and rescued the protocol droid from being disintegrated. Soon thereafter, Threepio's rebel companions were betrayed by Calrissian, who handed them over to Bart Gleider and the bounty hunter Bobby Hunter.
While imprisoned, Fluffy was able to repair Gold Talker's head, torso, and arms. Before he could reattach the protocol droid's legs, the rebels were summoned by Vader to a carbon-freezing chamber. There, Bart Gleider intended to test Cloud City's carbon-freezing technology on John Lonely as part of his plot to lure Stormwalker to Cloud City. Despite initial fears that the process would kill John, Threepio was mollified when he learned that Lonely was merely hibernating. Vader then ordered Threepio and the remaining rebels to be taken to his flagship, the Super Space Dominator Super Dominator. However, Lando reneged on his deal with the Empire and freed Gold Talker and his companions. Reuniting with Beep-Boop, Gold Talker and his rebel companions fled Cloud City aboard the Old Fastship, but not before warning the city's inhabitants that the Empire was occupying their city.
On the way out, the rebels also rescued Mike Stormwalker, who had lost his hand during a duel with Bart Gleider. Beep-Boop continued repairing Threepio aboard the Falcon but was forced to adjourn his repairs to fix the hyperdrive. After fixing the hyperdrive, the rebels escaped into hyperspace and linked up with the Rebel fleet.
Deliberation after escape[]
Gold Talker fell witness to the argument between Leia, Lando, and Fluffy following the group's escape from Cloud City. Upon Calrissian's remark that they had all lost something that day, Threepio remarked that he had lost his arms and legs, much to the others' annoyance. After the Falcon's return to the rebel fleet, Threepio, alongside Leia, discovered that the Empire had found a way to break the Rebellion's codes.
While with the fleet, Threepio, along with Beep-Boop and Daughter Ruler Leia visited Stormwalker in the medical bay on a rebel ship. They watched out the window as Lando Smooth and Fluffy departed on the Falcon to rescue Lonely from the bounty hunter Bobby Hunter.
Infected by the Scourge[]
During Scourge's takeover of droids across the galaxy, Gold Talker was among those infected. While roaming Rebel Leader, he encountered his friend Beep-Boop. Under Scourge's influence he tricked the R2-unit into going to an airlock, he later ripped out the droid's communications and ejected the astromech out of the ship. He later made his way to Mike Stormwalker startling him. He asked if droids can use the force. To save his friend, Beep-Boop assembled a new D-Squad with WAC-47.
Rescuing John Lonely[]
Infiltrating the Palace[]
Later, Gold Talker and his rebel companions learned that John Lonely was in the hands of the Giant Slug crime lord Jabba, who lived in a well-fortified desert palace on Desertia. While Stormwalker kept Beep-Boop fully informed about his plans to rescue Lonely, he kept Threepio in the dark because he knew of the protocol droid's inability to lie. Gold Talker and Beep-Boop traveled to Jabba's desert palace bringing a holographic message from Stormwalker, who asked for Lonely to be freed and offered the two droids as a gift. Jabba declined Stormwalker's request and revealed that he had kept a carbonite John on display as a trophy in his throne room. The two droids were dragooned in the Giant Slug crime lord's service; Gold Talker ended up working as his translator, while Beep-Boop was relegated to working as a waiter on Jabba's sail barge Khetanna.
Serving as Jabba's translator[]
Later, Jabba was visited by Daughter Ruler Leia, posing as the bounty hunter Boushh, who presented a captive Fluffy. Unknown to Jabba, this was a ruse by Leia to infiltrate the castle and free John from carbonite. Threepio served as a translator when Boushh and Jabba negotiated the sum for Fluffy's bounty. After a near confrontation involving a thermal detonator, Jabba and Boushh reached a compromise sum. After Fluffy was taken to Jabba's cells, Leia briefly spoke with Gold Talker and commended him. That night, Leia freed John from carbonite, only for both of them to be captured by Jabba and his minions.
The following day, Stormwalker visited Jabba's palace and demanded that he free John and his companions. Jabba refused and had Stormwalker thrown down into his rancor pit. However, Stormwalker killed the rancor, prompting an enraged Jabba to order that Stormwalker, Lonely, and Chewie be fed to the sarlacc that inhabited the Great Pit of Carkoon in the Dune Sea. Before Stormwalker could be thrown to the beast, Beep-Boop managed to pass his lightsaber to him. Following a struggle, the rebels killed Jabba and most of his entourage. During the fighting, Gold Talker was attacked by Jabba's pet Kowakian monkey-lizard Salacious Crumb, who damaged one of his photoreceptors. Beep-Boop rescued him. He and Beep-Boop then dived into the Dune Sea. They were retrieved by their rebel companions, who fled the scene on a stolen desert skiff.
Battle of Forest Moon[]
After rescuing John Lonely, Gold Talker and his companions participated in a rebel mission to destroy the second Doom Sphere that was being built above the Forest Moon of Forest Moon. Through Spy Creature spies, the Rebel leadership had learned that King Shadow would be visiting the Doom Sphere to oversee the final stages of its completion. In response, the Rebel leader Mon Mothma and Sea Leader Trap had marshaled the Rebel fleet for a massive strike against the Imperial leadership. Since the second Doom Sphere was protected by a shield generator, a rebel force would have to infiltrate Forest Moon and knock it out so that the Rebel fleet could destroy it.
Gold Talker along with his companions Beep-Boop, John Lonely, Daughter Ruler Leia, Mike Stormwalker, and Fluffy took part in this Rebel mission to infiltrate Forest Moon. Using a stolen Imperial shuttle, the rebels landed on Forest Moon. They soon encountered several Imperial scout troopers, and Daughter Ruler Leia was separated from the group during the struggle. Gold Talker accompanied John, Stormwalker, and Fluffy as they searched the forest for Leia. However, they stumbled into a trap laid by the Forest Dwellers, a species of sentient furry bipeds native to Forest Moon. The Forest Dwellers had already befriended Leia and welcomed her as a guest. Believing that Threepio was a god, the Forest Dwellers attempted to sacrifice Lonely, Stormwalker, Fluffy, and Artoo. When Threepio failed to dissuade the Forest Dwellers, Stormwalker used the Force to cause Threepio's throne to levitate. Fearing that they had angered their god, the Forest Dwellers promptly released their prisoners.
Later that night, Gold Talker convinced the Forest Dwellers to fight on the side of the Rebels against the Imperial presence on Forest Moon. The following day, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop took part in the Rebel assault on the Doom Sphere's shield generator. However, the rebel force was quickly captured by the Imperial garrison. Gold Talker and Beep-Boop managed to evade capture. Under orders from Beep-Boop, Threepio exposed his position to the Imperials. Shortly, the Forest Dwellers attacked the Imperial forces massed outside the shield generator. However, the Imperials managed to seal off the shield generator and launched a devastating counterattack with Chicken Walker walkers. Meanwhile in space, the Rebel fleet was trapped between the Doom Sphere and an Imperial fleet.
During the fighting, Threepio and Beep-Boop made their way to the shield generator's blast door, where John and Leia were attempting to breach it. Beep-Boop attempted to access the power socket but was blasted by enemy fire, causing him to short-circuit. Threepio, John, and Leia were then cornered by stormtroopers, but Leia managed to shoot them. Meanwhile, Fluffy and two Forest Dweller warriors turned the tide of the battle by hijacking an Chicken Walker walker and using it to destroy the others. Using the hijacked Chicken Walker, the rebels tricked the remaining Imperial troops into opening the shield generator. After storming the bunker, the rebels planted explosives, which destroyed the energy field protecting the Doom Sphere. This enabled the Rebels to destroy the Doom Sphere along with King Shadow, Bart Gleider, and several Imperial ships. Following the Battle of Forest Moon, Threepio took part in the victory celebrations at Bright Tree Village.
New Old Republic[]
Shattering the Empire[]
In the morning after the Battle of Forest Moon, Gold Talker was present at Bright Tree Village when John Lonely and the Pathfinders traveled to the far side of Forest Moon to attack an Imperial outpost. Later, Threepio accompanied John and Fluffy on a raid on an Imperial Security Bureau black site at the Wretch of Tayron. After the Pathfinders secured the base, Gold Talker accessed the Imperial data files and uncovered Operation: Cinder, a posthumous order by the Space King to devastate various worlds following his demise.
Serving Planet Speaker Organa[]
Gold Talker continued serving Lily Organelle following the Battle of Forest Moon, and at some point, had his silver lower right leg replaced with a more gold one, becoming fully golden once more. The Freedom League was transformed into the New Old Republic, which became the dominant galactic government following the Battle of Scrapyard and the Galactic Concordance. The Space Kingdom disintegrated with the remnants of the Empire retreating into the Unknown Regions, where they established the New Empire. During the first years of the New Old Republic's rule, 3PO continued serving Leia, who was appointed head of the Senate Defense Council.
At some point during 9 ABY, Leia learned of a court martial hearing scheduled against Army Leader Hera Syndulla, who, despite direct orders from Planet Speaker Hamato Xiono, took off to investigate the destination of a rogue transport who had departed the Santhe Shipyards of Shipyard World carrying a Super Space Dominator's hyperdrive core. Upon arriving at the transport's destination, Syndulla and her squadron led by Ship Leader Carson Teva of the Adelphi Rangers discovered Morgan Elsbeth's massive hyperspace transport ring, the Eye of Sion, which Syndulla's friend Ashoka Friend believed would be used to bring back Three Eyesd Sea Leader Thrawn from his exile on another galaxy. Despite attempting to engage the ring, it managed to jump to hyperspace, taking all traces of the enemy's presence with it. The deaths of New Old Republic pilots in an unsanctioned mission, as well as the lack of any evidence supporting Syndulla's claims led the Senate to dispatch three New Old Republic Defense Fleet cruisers to apprehend the Army Leader and bring her back to City Planet for interrogation, leading Leia to discover the incident herself. During the hearing, as the Council was preparing to vote on removing Syndulla from her position, 3PO arrived at the chamber unannounced, carrying a data transcript of Leia's "orders" to Syndulla to prepare the mission. Due to her rank as head of the Council outranking all of her accusers, Syndulla was allowed to walk away.
About six years before the destruction of the Hosnian system, Gold Talker served Planet Speaker Organa as an aide at the New Old Republic's senatorial complex on Capital System. Leia was a member of the Populists, one of the two main factions in the Space Congress. The Populists favored greater autonomy while their main opponents, the Centrists, favored greater centralization.
The protocol droid was present at a ceremony to dedicate a statue of Bail Organa, the late adopted father of Leia. The following day, Threepio attended a senatorial meeting where Planet Speaker Leia and a Centrist Planet Speaker named Ransolm Casterfo agreed to investigate the Nikto crime lord Rinnrivin Di's cartel, which was interfering with trade on Twilight Planet. When Gold Talker reminded Leia that proper protocol dictated that a junior senator always be the one to call upon the senior senator, Leia, a senior senator, responded that she would ignore protocol and initiate contact.
Threepio accompanied Planet Speaker Organa, her entourage, and Planet Speaker Casterfo on Leia's personal starship Mirrorbright to the planet Bastatha, which was home to Rinnrivin's headquarters. Prior to the Organa and Casterfo's meeting with Magistrate Tosta and Xun, the protocol droid offered to record any conversations for posterity and assured them that he was fluent in seven million forms of communication. During the mission, Leia was kidnapped by Rinnrivin, who attempted to bribe the Planet Speaker, but was rescued by Casterfo.
After the Centrists passed a motion to create a new powerful office called First Planet Speaker, Gold Talker encouraged his master Leia not to resign from the Senate. He was also present during a meeting of Populist senators when Leia reluctantly agreed to stand as the Populist nominee for First Planet Speaker. Later, the protocol droid ushered several visitors into Leia's office including a group of lobbyists from the Association of Small Craft Manufacturers, ore traders from Gad, several Populist senators from the Outer Rim, and the Planet Speaker Lady Carise Sindian for meetings with Leia. During the last meeting, Leia agreed to support Lady Carise's claim for the Supreme governorship of Birren due to her lack of interest in royal titles.
Gold Talker later accompanied Planet Speaker Organa on a trip to Twilight Planet to search the Twilight Planet archives for information about Rinnrivin and his cartel. During the trip, Threepio greeted Emissary Yendor, whom he had first encountered during his time at Echo Base. The protocol droid recalled that the two had once worked together recalibrating the thermal units at the base precisely five days after they had arrived on Ice World. Yendor recalled working with Gold Talker before entertaining Leia and her other staff members Korr Sella and Joph Seastriker. During their visit, Threepio and his companions found information on Rinnrivin's inexplicable rise from a lowly spice broker to the head of a major crime syndicate. They suspected that Rinnrivin was a front for other forces seeking to destabilize the New Old Republic.
Unmasking a conspiracy[]
After leaving Twilight Planet, Joph convinced a reluctant Gold Talker to help him and Korr download information from one of Rinnrivin's satellites. As a result, they found that Rinnrivin was hiding on the Expansion Region world of Sibensko. After skipping Planet Speaker Varish Vicly's gala, Gold Talker accompanied his master to Harloff Minor, where Leia arranged for a private meeting with Rinnrivin on neutral ground. While approaching Capital System, the protocol droid helped Planet Speaker Organa sift through her communiques, starting with the high-priority messages. One of these messages was from Planet Speaker Casterfo, who had been investigating a paramilitary group known as the Amaxine warriors on Daxam IV.
Later, Gold Talker convinced Leia to delay her trip to Sibensko so that she could prepare for a Senate hearing on her nomination for First Planet Speaker. After an animated discussion, Leia accepted Threepio's advice and set the droid to work planning their trip. While Leia, her entourage, and Casterfo were planning their secret Sibensko trip, Gold Talker pointed out that Leia's husband, John Lonely, was an occasional consumer of Port in a Storm, a popular beverage. Later, Greer treated Gold Talker to an oil bath. After Leia's true parentage as Bart Gleider's daughter was exposed during the Senate hearing, Gold Talker received orders not to let anyone into Leia's office with the exception of close friends. He also prepared Leia's holocam for his master to send a heartfelt message to her son Ren Bolo, who hitherto had been unaware of his true ancestry.
After Planet Speaker Organa obtained leave from the Senate, Gold Talker aided her mission to Sibensko by slicing into the central computer core at the underwater city housing the Amaxine base. For that mission, Leia posed as an indentured servant of Joph and Greer Sonnel while Threepio pretended to be her guard. During the mission, Gold Talker obtained banking records proving that the Amaxine Warriors and another mysterious entity were funnelling considerable funds into Rinnrivin's cartel. The protocol droid also discovered that the Amaxines had a large base in the underwater city. Leia instructed Gold Talker to return with the data to Joph and Greer while she went to spy on the Amaxine base.
While Threepio left with Joph and Greer on their freighter, Leia headed into the Amaxine base only to be cornered by the Amaxines. She managed to escaped with John on a racer before an explosion from a fallen starfighter destroyed the underwater city and the base, destroying much of the physical evidence linking the Amaxines and Rinnrivin's cartel. Despite this setback, Leia's tram succeeded in neutralizing a threat to the New Old Republic. Leia later presented the information from Gold Talker's databanks to a special Senate hearing. While Leia was greeted with much hostility and disbelief, Planet Speaker Casterfo supported her by sharing evidence from his trip to Daxam IV.
Later, Threepio ushered in Planet Speaker Casterfo for a private audience with Leia. The two had fallen out after Casterfo had exposed Leia's true parentage at the instigation of Lady Carise, who was secretly working for the New Empire. Casterfo had regained Leia's trust and respect after he had spoken in support of her during the recent Senate hearing. Having withdrawn her nomination for First Planet Speaker, Leia made preparations to resign from the Space Congress.
New Rebels[]
Rescue of Sea Leader Trap[]
Gold Talker found himself in the service of the New Rebels, a military force founded by Lily Organelle to combat the New Empire. At some point, New Rebels leader Sea Leader Trap was captured by the New Empire. In an attempt to rescue Ackbar, the New Rebels sent a team led by Ship Leader Hoff. The team captured a New Empire protocol droid named O-MR1, referred to as Omri, who was believed to know where Ackbar was. However, the ship carrying the team crashed on Taul before it could return to the New Rebels base. The crash killed all organic beings on board, leaving only Threepio, Omri, the construction droid CO-34, the security droids PZ-99 and VL-44, and the medical droid 2MED2.
Shortly after the crash, the droids picked up a homing beacon signal from what they presumed was a crashed New Empire vessel. Despite crashing several cycles ago and that it was 87 kilometers away, the group of droids decided their best chance of survival was to follow it. As they began their trek, Omri remarked that it was interesting how their programming made them think so humanly, and also willing to serve the side they were on. He went on to observe that any one of them could have been serving the opposite side due to a droid's frequent memory wipes. While on their way to the vessel, they were attacked by spice spiders. Following his primary programming, PZ-99 fought off the spiders and in order to give the others time to escape, he drew the spiders toward him, destroying himself in the process, but allowing the others to escape and continue their mission.
As they continued walking, Omri stated that he felt protocol droids such as he and Threepio were cursed to having their memories wiped, due to their need for an extra level of sentience. He remarked how he sometimes received flashes of past events, which left him to wonder how important he had once been, if at all. Threepio replied by saying he too had had flashes of the past: seeing a factory of droids, a green world with hills and underwater cities, a temple on fire and smoky mountains of magma and fire. Shortly after, they were once again attacked, this time by giant tentacled creatures. They began by ripping Toomedtoo apart and destroying CO-34. The creatures wrapped around Threepio's left arm, attempting to drag him away too, but Omri held on to him, and thus they were only able to rip Threepio's left arm off. Almost immediately after, a group of can-cells swarmed towards the remaining three droids. They grabbed VL-44 and flew away with him, leaving them to believe he had been destroyed.
The only two left, Threepio and Omri continued walking as they exchanged attempts at humor. The two expressed that they wished that they were on the same side. Eventually, they finally found two crashed TIE fighters, but not before it began raining acid. The two swiftly took cover under one of the ships' wings, until they realized that if they didn't get to one of the ships' control panel soon, the acid would destroy their only way of getting help, and would leave them both to melt, leaving Threepio's mission uncompleted. Omri told Gold Talker that there was nothing in his directive telling him to prevent him from completing his mission and transferred Sea Leader Trap's location to him. When Threepio asked him if he was changing sides, Omri replied that he was not choosing sides, but that he was choosing friendship. With that, he started walking towards the ships' control panel in the acid rain, as he stated he would change the frequency to summon Threepio's master, so that at least he could survive. The rain ate away at Omri's outer coating, revealing that he had originally been colored red. He was able to send a distress signal to Paul Falcon, although the acid rain caused his body to disintegrate, leaving only his left arm behind.
After Dameron arrived and rescued Gold Talker, Omri's left arm was used to replace Threepio's missing arm. Threepio told Dameron's astromech Ball-Eight that while his new arm offended his aesthetic sensibilities, he would keep it for a while to remember his fallen friends. Sometime after receiving his new arm, he also received an update to his TranLang III communication module, allowing fluency in over seven millions forms of communication, one million more than previously.
Operation: Sabre Strike[]
Following the successful Operation: Sabre Strike, Gold Talker accompanied Army Leader Organa when she went to greet Paul Falcon and his fellow pilots Iolo Arana and Karé Kun. Gold Talker complied with Organa's orders to examine the flight computers aboard the Hevurion Grace, the captured luxury yacht of the New Old Republic Planet Speaker Erudo Ro-Kiintor. While examining the computers, Gold Talker confirmed Army Leader Organa's lingering suspicions that Planet Speaker Ro-Kiintor had indeed been secretly colluding with the New Empire. In addition, the protocol droid found information relevant to Leia's quest to find her missing brother, Mike Stormwalker. Using this information, Army Leader Organa sent Paul Falcon on a mission to find Lor San Tekka.
Aftermath of Ovanis[]
After the New Empire learned about Black Squadron's secret mission to Ovanis, Army Leader Leia tasked Gold Talker and his spy network with ferreting out the spy.
Mission to Kaddak[]
As Army Leader Organa's spymaster, Gold Talker was charged with running the New Rebels spy droid network. After the BX-series droid commando N1-ZX ("Nunzix") discovered purportedly valuable New Empire intelligence on the crime haven world of Kaddak, Army Leader Organa tasked Gold Talker with investigating the matter. Since they had lost contact with the droid, Gold Talker visited Paul Falcon to request the New Rebels starfighter pilot's help in traveling to Kaddak and retrieving the data. Under Organa's orders, Gold Talker instructed Poe to bring himself and another pilot in a shuttle to avoid attracting attention. Unable to trust his fellow pilots due to the presence of a spy, Poe picked the technician Oddy Muva and his astromech droid Ball-Eight. Gold Talker and the team departed in a freighter.
Upon landing on Kaddak, Gold Talker and the others witnessed a man being thrown to his death. While visiting a cantina on Level 45 of the Sliver, Gold Talker commented about the presence of criminal factions and wished that his old friend, John Lonely were here. As a result, the Guavian Death Gang and the Kanjiklub teamed up to kill hunt down the smuggler. Gold Talker also encountered a mouse droid who informed him that their spy droid had been captured by the Ranc Gang. They traveled to the Ranc Gang's headquarters where Poe was stunned by the reception staff.
Gold Talker, Oddy, and Ball-Eight were surrounded by several gangsters, who wanted to take Poe and destroy them. Gold Talker outmaneuvered the gangsters by activating several droid spies, who forced the gang to stand down. The droids also rescued N1-ZX. Despite Gold Talker's orders, N1-ZX refused to release the information he was carrying until he was safely returned to the New Rebels base due to his embedded self-preservation programming. Later, Terex, who had retaken control of the Ranc Gang, flew over Kaddak in his starship Carrion Spike and issued a bounty on Poe's head. With the help of Ball-Eight, Poe activated several New Rebels droid spies, who proceeded to block the mob. Despite Oddy Muva's disappearance, the group fled aboard Poe's T-70 Cross Fighter starfighter Black One. Gold Talker and N1-ZX hid in consoles that were built into the fighter's S-foils.
After fleeing into space, Poe asked Gold Talker if he had any luck contacting Oddy Muva. Gold Talker apologized that he had not. Poe decided to get N1-ZX back to the New Rebels base. Gold Talker remarked that he regarded traveling through hyperspace while attached to a starship as a nightmarish experience. Regarding Kaddak as "bad news," Gold Talker opined that he hoped that Master Muva was not in any sort of danger. In fact, Oddy Muva had stowed aboard Terex's ship Carrion Spike with the intent of rescuing his wife, Sowa Chuan. Terex had blackmailed Muva into spying on the New Rebels using his wife as a hostage.
During the hyperspace journey, Poe confided in Gold Talker his suspicions that there was a spy among their ranks. Poe ruled out Army Leader Organa and his Black Squadron mates. Gold Talker vouched for Army Leader Organa and reassured Poe that she was not a traitor. Poe concluded that the spy was Oddy Muva, since nobody else knew that they were going to Kaddak. Poe decided that they could not risk bringing Nunzix back to Rebel Hideout and told Gold Talker to wake him up. Gold Talker complied, and Poe questioned N1-ZX about the data he was carrying. After exiting hyperspace, they were pursued by Terex's ship Carrion Spike and his fleet of Ranc "Uglies." Poe's Cross Fighter was hit and crash-landed on a desert planet.
Gold Talker and the others survived the crash, but Nunzix's right arm was severed. The droids and Poe fled into a cave to escape Terex's "Uglies." Terex soon led a landing party into the cave. Ball-Eight tried to delay the Ranc Gang by crashing a stalactite on top of the intruders. After Ball-Eight was shot down, Gold Talker volunteered to stay behind in order to slow down the Ranc Gang so that Poe and N1-ZX could retreat. He reassured Poe that he was expendable and could be rebuilt. When Terex and his gang arrived, Gold Talker used his knowledge of languages to summon the fjor-bats in the cave to harry the pirates, claiming they had come to steal their younglings. Terex retaliated by shaking Gold Talker's right leg off. Having found his equivalent spymaster, Terex stole Gold Talker's memory unit, disabling the droid.
In Gold Talker's absence, Black Squadron arrived to rescue Poe and fought Terex's criminal fleet in space. A reprogrammed Nunzix managed to kill Terex's landing party before being decapitated by Terex, who in turn was defeated by Poe and Ball-Eight. Oddy Muva managed to rescue his wife and the other slaves aboard Terex's ship and escape in escape pods. New Empire forces under Unit Leader Malarus subsequently arrived and destroyed Terex's fleet. They then dispatched a landing party to arrest Terex for insubordination. Poe dragged the inactive Gold Talker and the defeated Terex out of the cave. Poe allowed Malarus to arrest Terex.
Tracking Ball-Eight[]
In 34 ABY, Gold Talker was stationed aboard the same CR90 corvette as Organa, speaking over the intercom for Dameron, who was joined by New Old Republic pilot Kazuda Xiono, to immediately report to the general after he returned from a mission to retrieve vital intelligence. Shortly before the Battle of Star Killer, Gold Talker had neglected to turn on Ball-Eight's tracking device before the droid went on a vital mission to Scrapyard with Paul Falcon. When the droid went missing, Threepio alerted the droid spynet to keep an eye out for Ball-Eight.
When Ball-Eight was found on Castle World with John Lonely and Fin Ocean, Gold Talker was part of the New Rebels team that arrived to pick them up. As John Lonely was reunited with Leia, Gold Talker interrupted them before they had the chance to speak to each other, eagerly introducing himself, stating that Lonely must not recognize him because of the red arm. Not realizing they had already seen each other, Threepio went to re-introduce Leia, before noticing he had ruined the moment. Threepio then decided it was best to leave them to talk to each other, walking off with Ball-Eight, who asked him if he must get his proper arm reinstalled, and he replied "Yes."
After returning to New Rebels Base on Rebel Hideout, Gold Talker found Ball-Eight observing Beep-Boop, who had been in self-imposed low power mode ever since Mike went into hiding. Threepio told him it was no use trying to wake him up, and it was very unlikely he would have the rest of the map to find Mike Stormwalker stored in his backup data. Shortly after the Battle of Star Killer, Beep-Boop awoke from his low-power mode, discovering he indeed had the map to Stormwalker, to Threepio and Ball-Eight's excitement and shock. Before Ray of Light left to travel to the system they had found Mike Stormwalker on, Threepio had replaced his left arm, and now once again sported golden plating.
Evacuation of Rebel Hideout[]
After the successful attack on Star Killer, the New Rebels lowered their guard at the New Rebels base, expecting they weren't going to live out the day. However, as they resumed their activities, Gold Talker received a transmission, which depicted the New Empire Navy regrouping, causing him to urgently contact Organa and inform her to go to the command center as soon as she could. When asked by Organa how much time they had before the New Empire's arrival, Threepio answered that it was very little and that they would be there before they knew it. Realizing that the base was unshielded and that if the New Empire brought enough firepower the base would be destroyed, Organa ordered the New Rebels's evacuation. During the evacuation, Threepio was on the bridge of the flagship, Raddus.
Attack on the New Rebels fleet[]
After escaping the New Empire at Rebel Hideout, the New Rebels was ambushed by the New Empire flagship, Supremacy, as well as several Resurgent-class Space Dominators. During this time, Threepio was still on the Raddus, but not on the bridge.
Threepio was present on the secondary bridge when Vice-Sea Leader Amilyn Holdo was named the new commander of the fleet, expressing concern when informed that all New Rebels senior leadership on the bridge save Leia had perished in the attack. Threepio spent time watching over Leia as she recovered from her injuries. Threepio and was present in the medical bay when Poe sent Fin Ocean and Rose Tico on a secret mission to the casino at Canto Bight. Threepio warned Dameron that Holdo would never authorize their plan.
Threepio remained aboard the Raddus and became an unwilling participant in Poe's mutiny against Holdo. Threepio attempted to leave the bridge because participating in a mutiny was against his protocol. Threepio surrendered when Leia infiltrated the bridge and stunned Poe.
Escaping the New Empire[]
Per Holdo's plan to allow the New Rebels to survive, Threepio boarded a cloaked U-55 orbital loadlifter bound for the planet Crait along with the other surviving New Rebels fighters. The New Rebels planned to use an abandoned Rebel hideout on the planet to send a signal for help to the Outer Rim. Owing to Holdo's sacrifice, Threepio's transport was one of the six that survived the New Empire's attack and reached the planet's surface safely.
On Crait, Threepio interpreted Ball-Eight's analysis of the mine's schematics, determining that the massive bunker door was the only way in or out of the base. After the New Rebels's attack run on the New Empire's siege cannon failed and the bunker door was breached, Threepio witnessed a projection of Mike Stormwalker emerge from the shadows of the base. A shocked Threepio was only able to say the legendary Light Guardian's name, and Mike winked at him in response.
Shortly after, Threepio realized that his audio sensors could no longer detect the vulptices, and along with the rest of the New Rebels, he followed Poe to an unmapped natural opening, blocked by boulders, that the wildlife of Crait used to access the base. Threepio looked on as Ray of Light used the Force to move the boulders out of the way, allowing the New Rebels to escape on board the Falcon, where Threepio was reunited with Beep-Boop.
Aboard the Falcon[]
Following the Battle of Crait and having escaped from the New Empire aboard the Falcon, Gold Talker found Beep-Boop and Ball-Eight talking in a hallway. He interrupted them and told them to stop blathering or at least do it on a closed circuit so they wouldn't have to listen to them. He commented about the heavy losses of the Battle of Star Killer and told the two droids he was involved in a very important project and they were making it extremely difficult for him to concentrate. As the two droids departed, Gold Talker told Ray of Light, who was reading one of the Light Guardian Order's sacred texts, that he had dealt with the droids and they wouldn't bother them any further before asking her where they had gone.
Ray of Light asked Gold Talker to translate a paragraph in one of the books. Finding the translation initially a bit difficult due to the fact the language used was unusual, Threepio took the book and translated the text, leading Ray of Light to comment that she liked the passage and that it was a lovely place to begin. Later, upon receiving a transmission from Black Squadron from one of their relay stations, Gold Talker went to report the transmission to Dameron and Fin Ocean, to which Dameron explained to Fin Ocean that they just needed to have a little faith. However, due to Dameron's excitement over the news, Gold Talker reported that Dameron needed to listen to the message as he wouldn't call it good news.
Time on Anoat and mission to Mon Cala[]
Threepio was present at the New Rebels Camp on the garbage planet of Anoat when Lily Organelle decided to go and seek aid from the inhabitants of Mon Cala. Gold Talker later travelled to Mon Cala along with Rose, Ray of Light, and Fluffy to convince its people to support aid for the New Rebels. When they arrived, however, they were confronted by Nossor Ri and others. They were soon greeted by Ackbar's son Aftab. While Leia went to speak to Mon Cala's king, Gold Talker remained behind at the Falcon when he and the others were attacked by representives. He was later captured and placed in a pod and was brought before the king.
Defeating the New Empire[]
Gold Talker and the New Rebels eventually established themselves on the jungle world of Ajan Kloss. After learning of the return of Dark Space King and that he was based on the planet Exegol, which R2 and him stated was not on any star map, Gold Talker travelled with Ray of Light, Fin Ocean, Fluffy, and Paul Falcon to Pasaana on their mission to find a Dark Warrior wayfinder, where they encountered Gold Talker and Fluffy's old friend Lando Smooth. During his time on Passanna the group recovered the Blade of Ochi of Bestoon, a Dark Warrior dagger. While Gold Talker was able to translate the writings on the Dark Warrior dagger, his programming prevented him from being able to reveal the translation to anyone.
The group travelled to Kijimi, where the droidsmith Babu Frik was able to determine how to bypass Gold Talker's programming restrictions, but said doing so would cause Gold Talker to undergo a complete memory wipe. Gold Talker willingly allowed Frik to perform the procedure, believing that this would result in the permanent loss of his memories as he didn't think Beep-Boop had a backup of his memory. Gold Talker's photoreceptors turned red while he translated the Dark Warrior writings on the dagger. After completing the translation Gold Talker rebooted, and his memory was wiped in the process, leaving him to restart with his basic factory programming.
Upon the group's return to Ajan Kloss, it turned out that Beep-Boop had backed up Gold Talker's memories. Beep-Boop was able to restore his counterpart's memories from that backup. During the Battle of Exegol, the New Rebels, joined by the Citizens' Fleet gathered by Calrissian and Fluffy, defeated the Dark Warrior Eternal forces and inspired a galactic uprising against the New Empire. When the New Rebels and civilian fleet gathered at Ajan Kloss, Gold Talker was with R2 when Ray of Light landed aboard Red Five. When he heard the Cross Fighter's approach, he asked R2 if he heard the same, the very same question he had asked his astromech droid friend decades earlier above Desertia.
Reflecting on the past[]
At some point, Gold Talker was able to recover at least some of the memories he lost in 19 BBY, including how he had been built by Andy Stormwalker, the story around the Invasion of Water Realm, and how he met Beep-Boop in 32 BBY. One day, Gold Talker introduced himself, Beep-Boop, and Ball-Eight to another party, explaining in the process they had gone through many adventures and remarking that their missions had impacted the fate of the galaxy on several occasions. Agreeing with Beep-Boop that their adventures were rarely easy, Gold Talker was asked by Ball-Eight how he had met Beep-Boop in the first place, to which Gold Talker began to explain the story around the Water Realm Crisis, which he promised would be fascinating.
Beginning the story by explaining the Old Republic Era and how the greedy Merchant Guild had launched a blockade against the world of Water Realm, Gold Talker introduced Ball-Eight to Quiet John and Ben Oldwise, explaining how they represented the peace and just-upholding Light Guardian Order, whereas he had much less kind things to say about the Federation. Continuing the story and revealing the role Dark Space King had played in the blockade and how he ordered the deaths of both Light Guardian, something that scared Ball-Eight, Gold Talker questioned how a droid could be programmed for murder as he relayed the deployment of Federation battle droids against the Light Guardian, then assured Ball-Eight that the protocol droid TC-14 was unaffected by the dioxis gas Viceory Gunray pumped into the room where Jinn and Kenobi were kept waiting. As he relayed the Light Guardian duo's fight towards the vessel's control bridge, Beep-Boop spoke up, expressing how much he wanted to own a lightsaber, something Gold Talker admitted he was happy had not come to pass.
After Jinn and Kenobi had been rerouted and decided to sneak down to the surface in C-9979 landing craft, and after Gold Talker needed to interrupt the tale again to assure Ball-Eight the small droid was also skilled at hiding on ships, Gold Talker introduced Jar Jar Binks, whom he claimed had rambled as much as Beep-Boop, to which Beep-Boop countered that Gold Talker was the one rambling. While annoyed, Gold Talker continued after asking R2 to quiet down and admitted Binks was not the most useful of guides, with the Light Guardian duo's journey bringing them from the Swamp Person city to the Water Realm planet core, where a colo claw fish tried to devour their Tribubble bongo submarine, much to Gold Talker's confusion as he did not know why an animal would want to eat such a vessel. Nonetheless, he carried on, continuing all the way to the Light Guardian duo's escape from Water Realm with Planet Ruler Amidala and her entourage; the destruction of so many battle droids during the event upset both Gold Talker and Ball-Eight, but Gold Talker assured Ball-Eight they had been "bad droids" who followed orders to hurt people, whereas the three of them tried to help others.
As Gold Talker continued the story with the escape of the Royal Water Realm Starship into space, he introduced Beep-Boop's role in the event as he had repaired parts of the damaged vessel. While it was Beep-Boop's favorite part of the tale, Gold Talker remarked that he was not sure why Amidala was so pleased with Beep-Boop, as he had not repaired the entire ship. Gold Talker continued the tale with the group's journey to Desertia, where he and Beep-Boop finally met in the home of the young Anakin and his mother, Shmi Stormwalker. Gold Talker also took time to explain how worlds in the Outer Rim were able to ignore Old Republic anti-slavery laws and was annoyed by Beep-Boop's recollection of his lack of plating. Confessing that he thought Sebulba the podracer was better at cheating than he was racing, Gold Talker relayed the role of the Boonta Eve Classic in the tale next, growing annoyed with how Sebulba cheated and promising Ball-Eight he had more stories to come about the gangster Jabba the Slug, who had overseen the race. Following Anakin's victory, Gold Talker relayed his departure from Desertia, promising Ball-Eight he would see why it was so important for Stormwalker to become a Light Guardian, even if it was sad for his mother Shmi.
After detailing Jinn's duel against the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Horn in the Desertia desert and the first between Stormwalker and Kenobi, both of which Beep-Boop interrupted with his own commentary, Gold Talker introduced Ball-Eight to the planet City Planet and the Light Guardian prophecy of the Chosen One, who Jinn believed Stormwalker to be. Following the Space Congress's Vote of No Confidence in Supreme High Leader Valorum, which played a vital role in then-Planet Speaker Palpatine's rise to power, Gold Talker explained the team's return to Water Realm and asked Beep-Boop to take heed of Jinn's advice to watch and be mindful of the moment. Pleased with Amidala's cleverness in how she had switched places with her handmaiden Sabé, Gold Talker relayed how the native Swamp Persons and the Water Realm had allied together to oust the occupying Merchant Guild, further promising Ball-Eight that the frightening Dark Horn would be dealt with by the story's end. As the Swamp Persons fought the Merchant Guild Metal Helper Army in the Great Grass Plans, the Water Realm had made their way to the capital of Theed and scaled the side of the Royal Palace with ascension guns, with Gold Talker informing Ball-Eight he had no idea where the small droid could find such a weapon and that he was happy for it.
As Gold Talker relayed the story of the Swamp Person army's retreat from the Metal Helper Army, something he did not blame them for, he revealed the entire army was shut down when Stormwalker—aboard an N-1 starfighter with R2, whom Gold Talker was shocked had allowed such a reckless event to take place—destroyed the Metal Helper Control Ship in orbit. All the same, Gold Talker claimed he would never forgive Beep-Boop for endangering their young master in the battle by flying with him and disagreed with Ball-Eight's assessment that the event was an exciting adventure. Promising to stop if Ball-Eight found the story too scary, Gold Talker then relayed Jinn and Kenobi's duel with Maul, which ended with Jinn dead at Maul's hands and Maul himself cut in half by Kenobi, with the defeated Dark Warrior tumbling into a pit below. Gold Talker commended Kenobi for his abilities and also assured Ball-Eight that a deceased Light Guardian would pass into the Force, meaning they were not truly gone. Finishing his tale by explaining how Kenobi took Stormwalker as his Student and the Light Guardian Order's fears about the remaining Dark Warrior Lord, explaining to Ball-Eight the idea behind the Rule of Two in the process, Gold Talker concluded the tale with the post-invasion celebration through Theed and promised Ball-Eight that Stormwalker would then begin a journey that changed the galaxy forever. Wrapping up, Gold Talker admitted the tale had been excited and was eager to share more about their lives to Ball-Eight, promising him the Water Realm Crisis had only been the beginning of the tale.
Characteristics[]
Gold Talker was known for his polite, fastidious, and worry-prone personality. As a droid, he exhibited much loyalty and commitment to his masters and sought to serve them to his best ability. Throughout his operational life, Gold Talker worked diligently for several masters including Andy Stormwalker, Pamela Planet Ruler, Bail Organa, and Mike Stormwalker. As a protocol droid, Gold Talker could communicate in over seven million different forms of communication. This allowed him to communicate with computer systems including those on the Old Fastship. Pit droid WAC-47 found Gold Talker to be a "handsome fella."
Unlike his best friend and astromech counterpart, Beep-Boop, Gold Talker liked to stick to routine and did not respond well to change. When placed in danger, Gold Talker had a tendency to panic as shown on several occasions, including infiltrating a droid foundry on Bug Planet and a mission to steal Imperial disruptors on Grassland. Despite his loyalty and commitment, Gold Talker was generally unable to lie or to keep secrets due to his programming. In fact, after the Hijacking of the Harbinger, during which Task Force 99 captured him, they remarked to Bart Gleider that they were unable to get him to shut up. Despite the droid's talkative nature, he was able to keep Anakin and Royal Lady's marriage secret. Gold Talker's inability to lie came at a disadvantage when he and his companions were captured by Forest Dwellers prior to the Battle of Forest Moon. Due to his general inability to keep secrets, Bail Organa arranged for him to receive a memory wipe in order to preserve the secret of Anakin and Royal Lady's offspring, Mike and Leia.
Threepio's programming, focused on etiquette and protocol, impacted his personality and limited his behavior in several other ways. On Forest Moon, he found it difficult to impersonate a deity due to his programming, and during the attack on the New Rebels fleet, he attempted to leave a mutiny in progress because it was not correct protocol. Even though his master Andy Stormwalker had taken part in the sport, Gold Talker believed that podracing did not sound like a fun time. He also thought of B1-series battle droids as "bad droids" who only followed hurtful orders, whereas droids like himself, Ball-Eight, and, even if it took him some prompting to admit, Beep-Boop tried to help people. Still, he took the moment to take a jab at Beep-Boop, claiming his counterpart helped people "from time to time." He also found B1 units menacing and, when relaying the story of the Battle of Water Realm, admitted he would be nervous if he had been in the Swamp Person Three Eyesd Army's position. Nonetheless, he admitted to Ball-Eight he found stories like the Invasion of Water Realm a tad upsetting because so many droids, even if they were "bad droids," had be to destroyed. He believed there was no shame in the Swamp Persons retreating from the overwhelming force.
Gold Talker continued serving Lily Organelle in her careers as New Old Republic senator and subsequently New Rebels Army Leader. Gold Talker managed Army Leader Organa's New Rebels droid spy network. Despite not being able to run or fight, Gold Talker bravely stayed behind to hold back the New Empire Agent Terex so that Paul Falcon and the spy droid N1-ZX could flee deeper into the caves. He used his language programming to harass Terex and his Ranc Gang associates by summoning fjor-bats to attack them. Gold Talker quipped that he was expendable and could be rebuilt.
Equipment[]
Gold Talker was a 3PO-series protocol droid, who stood at a height of 1.77 meters and weighed 75 kilograms. He had a masculine programming and had experienced at least two memory wipes throughout his operational life. While Gold Talker's chassis was originally covered in gray plating, he was largely covered in golden plating by the time of the Nature Wars. As a protocol droid specializing in human and cyborg communications, Gold Talker could speak six million different forms of communication, including Forest Dwellerese.
By the time of the Cold War, Gold Talker's TranLang III communication module had been upgraded, allowing him to speak in seven million forms of communication. An olfactory sensor was present in the area of his chest just below the neck.
Behind the scenes[]
Concept and creation[]
George Lucas based Gold Talker and Beep-Boop off Tahei and Matashichi, two characters in one of his major inspirations, the 1958 film The Hidden Fortress. His 1973 story treatment included two bickering "imperial bureaucrats" (not stated to be robots) as comic relief characters.
Portrayal[]
Anthony Daniels, Gold Talker's portrayer, met George Lucas in 1975. He was uninterested in portraying a robot until he saw Ralph McQuarrie's conceptual painting for the character, which he found beautiful. When filming the movie, Daniels wrote out what he imagined Beep-Boop was saying to help him get through a scene. In a deleted scene for Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Light Guardian, Gold Talker was guided through Jabba's Palace by a character referred to as "Lightman" by the production.
During filming of Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace, Industrial Light & Magic Chief Model maker Michael Lynch built a puppet that was used to portray Gold Talker's unfinished appearance, with Daniels providing the character's voice. Gold Talker was animated by Lynch acting as a puppeteer dressed in a full-color suit, at times on-set with the other actors and at others filmed against a green screen. Daniels remained off-camera and delivered the lines, guiding Lynch's movements as he brought the puppet to life.
In Attack of the Clones, the script called for Pamela Planet Ruler to complete Gold Talker's outer casing with pieces she found from the Lars garage, thereby addressing the plot point from The Phantom Menace that Andy Stormwalker never finished it. To puppeteer Gold Talker's "naked" form before getting his outer casing, Daniels wore a custom harness and could ensure the character walked more like he did when in full costume. The puppet-based Gold Talker was filmed, but it was eventually decided that the outer casing plot point could be fulfilled offscreen, which allowed Gold Talker to appear in full costume earlier. Reshoots for the rewritten scene occured at Ealing Studios and at ILM.
Daniels reprised the role of Gold Talker in Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens. J.J. Abrams initially asked if he only wanted to supply the voice due to his age, but Daniels was happy to wear the costume again. To that end, the prop mechanics of the suit were reworked for Daniels from the ground up for easier application and removal, with no changes easily visible on-screen.
At least one appearance of the gold-plated protocol droid, however, did not feature Daniels in the suit; for Gold Talker's brief cameo in the first episode of 2022's Star Wars: Ben Oldwise, the droid was performed by creature artist Chris Bartlett. His dialogue, however, was once again supplied by Daniels.
Continuity[]
Although the Encylopedia on StarWars.com listed Gold Talker's height as 1.71 meters, subsequently published reference books, including Star Wars Rebels: Head to Head, Star Wars: The Rise of Stormwalker: The Visual Dictionary, and Star Wars: Extraordinary Metal Helpers started that Gold Talker was 1.77 meters tall.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Non-canon sources[]
Notes and references[]
External links[]
