Fluffy, known affectionately to his friends as Chewie, was a Hairy Friend male warrior, smuggler, mechanic, pilot, and resistance fighter who fought in the Nature Wars, the Galactic Civil War, the Cold War, and the subsequent New Empire-New Rebels War. He hailed from the planet Tree World where he was born during the High Old Republic Era and became a Hairy Friend military leader. During the Nature Wars, he was captured by Lizard Man slavers and held captive on Wasskah, but he worked with a fellow captive, Light Guardian Unit Leader Ashoka Friend, to escape. He later commanded Hairy Friend forces of the Kachirho Hairy Friend Militia during the Battle of Tree World alongside the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic, led by Light Guardian Army Leader Guru. During the battle, one of the last ones of the war, Guru's clone troopers received Order 66 from the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Space King and, with the help of Fluffy and his fellow Hairy Friend Chieftain and Army Leader Tarfful, Guru escaped Tree World and the destruction of the Light Guardian Order.
In the years that followed, during the rule of the Space Kingdom, Fluffy was enslaved by the Empire until he was rescued by Corporal John Lonely, becoming his co-pilot aboard the Old Fastship during a raid on Prison Planet for Crimson Dawn with Tobias Beckett and Qi'ra. Winning the Falcon from Bart Ray of Lightmen, they later worked in the employ of crime lord Jabba the Slug until Lonely was forced to dump a shipment of spice to avoid trouble with the Empire, at which point a bounty was placed on their heads. Soon thereafter, Fluffy and Lonely were hired by Light Guardian Master Ben Oldwise to ferry him, Mike Stormwalker, Gold Talker, and Beep-Boop to Peace Star on a mission vital to the survival of the Alliance to Restore the Old Republic. After finding Peace Star was destroyed, the group was brought aboard the Doom Sphere, where they helped Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle escape from captivity and return to the Rebel base on Jungle Moon 4. Though Fluffy and Lonely initially chose to leave Jungle Moon 4 and not join the Rebellion, they ended up fighting in the Battle of Jungle Moon and were instrumental in Stormwalker's destruction of the Doom Sphere, a major victory for the Rebellion.
Throughout the war, Fluffy and Lonely fought the Empire in a number of engagements, including an assault on Cymoon 1 and the battle on Vrogas Vas. Along with Daughter Ruler Organa and Gold Talker, they escaped from Echo Base on the planet Ice World after the Empire tracked the Freedom League there. The group sought refuge with Calrissian on Cloud City, but Calrissian betrayed them and turned them over to Bart Gleider, the Space King's chief enforcer, after his city was threatened. Lonely was frozen in carbonite and Calrissian helped the others escape, but they were too late to save the frozen Lonely from being taken by Bobby Hunter to Jabba the Slug. Fluffy and Calrissian set off to find Lonely and located him in Jabba's Palace on Desertia, where Fluffy and his friends saved Lonely and destroyed Jabba. Shortly thereafter, they fought in the Battle of Forest Moon, where Fluffy helped destroy the shield generator and allowed the Alliance Fleet to destroy the DS-2 Doom Sphere II Mobile Battle Station. Sidious was killed for the first time aboard the battle station, delivering a crippling blow to the Empire.
After Forest Moon and the rise of the New Old Republic, Fluffy and Lonely fought to liberate Tree World from the Empire. When the war finally came to a close, Fluffy returned home to Tree World with his family. After Lonely's son Ben, turned to the dark side and destroyed Stormwalker's new generation of Light Guardian, Fluffy reunited with his old friend and the two spent many years as smugglers once more. They lost the Old Fastship and ended up smuggling aboard a ship called the Eravana, but they eventually found the Falcon and, with it, stowaways named Ray of Light, Fin Ocean, and the droid Ball-Eight. The droid had part of a map that led to the exiled Mike Stormwalker, so the group brought the map to the New Rebels that opposed the New Empire, which had risen from the ashes of the Space Kingdom. Fluffy soon fought in the assault to destroy Star Killer, a devastating New Empire superweapon, a conflict in which Lonely lost his life at the hands of his son. After the base was destroyed, Fluffy joined Ray of Light in traveling to the planet Ahch-To on the Falcon, where they found Mike Stormwalker. After Lonely's death, Fluffy often served as the sole pilot of the Falcon, including piloting the ship to aid the New Rebels during the Battle of Crait.
Roughly a year after the battle of Crait, Fluffy was one of the last of the New Rebels. Having learned of the mysterious return of Dark Space King, Fluffy and the crew of the Falcon, now including Paul Falcon, traveled to the planets Pasaana and Kijimi to find a clue to how to find where the Space King was hiding, being reunited with his friend Calrissian in the process. The quest nearly ended in Fluffy's apparent death, as Ray of Light, having been revealed to be the Space King's granddaughter through his son, lashed out with dark power during a fight with Kyle Runner and destroyed a New Empire transport that she had thought Fluffy had been loaded onto, seemingly killing him.
However, Fluffy survived and was rescued by the New Rebels as they continued the quest. Ray of Light eventually found Exegol during a failed self-exile attempt to protect the galaxy from her becoming a Dark Warrior, and led the charge during the battle that ensued later on. Ray of Light finally killed her malevolent grandfather with the help of the returned Ren Bolo in the climax of the battle, while the New Rebels, joined by the Citizens' Fleet, progressively overpowered the Dark Warrior Eternal's fleet, the Final Order, that Sidious planned to unleash.
Having ultimately destroyed the Dark Warrior once and for all, the New Rebels reveled in their victory, but also mourned their losses, including Leia, who had died of natural causes shortly after reaching out to her son and helping him turn back towards the light.
Contents
Biography[]
Early life[]
A Hairy Friend male, Fluffy, nicknamed "Chewie," hailed from Tree World, a peaceful planet where he was born in the city of Rwookrrorro, one hundred and eighty years before the Nature Wars to Attichitcuk and a female Hairy Friend. during the High Old Republic Era. He was married to a female named Mallatobuck, and had a family to support, including a son named Lumpawaroo. During his life, he explored Tree World, including the wildest reaches of its forests, from one pole to the other. His exploration hardened his footpads.
The Nature Wars[]
Meeting Ashoka Friend[]
At some point during the Nature Wars, a galaxy-spanning conflict between the Galactic Old Republic and the Breakaway League, Fluffy famously shielded his allies. Fighting with courage to defend both Tree World and the Old Republic, he served as a combat engineer while other Hairy Friend soldiers led the charge in battle. In 20 BBY, he was captured by a Lizard Man hunting guild led by Garnac; taken to Island Four on Wasskah to be their prey, his transport was attacked by a trio of Light Guardian apprentices—the Student Ashoka Friend and the younglings Jinx and O-Mer, also prey of the Lizard Mans.
Fluffy escaped from the wreckage and followed the trio, with whom he communicated with thanks to Tano's understanding of Shyriiwook, to their hideout. Using his technical expertise and parts from the crashed transport, he constructed a transmitter to contact his people on his nearby homeworld; however, it seemingly failed and an impatient Jinx, supported by O-Mer, decided to lure down and hijack a hunting pod and take the base ship. As persuaded by Tano, Fluffy joined in their endeavor and raided the Lizard Man base, only to be joined by a Hairy Friend relief force led by his old friend Army Leader Tarfful—who had received Fluffy's transmission—as well as bounty hunters Sugi and Seripas. Once all the Lizard Mans had been killed, Fluffy and the Hairy Friends accompanied the young Light Guardian to the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet, where they parted ways.
Battle of Tree World[]
During the last days of the war, Lieutenant Fluffy was a major player in the Battle of Tree World, overseeing the confrontation between the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic and the invading Separatist Metal Helper Army alongside Tarfful and Light Guardian Army Leader Guru, as well as Light Guardian Master Green Teacher. Following the implementation of Order 66, Fluffy and Tarfful witnessed the assassination attempt on Guru by Unit Leader Gree and his aide; he helped the Light Guardian Three Eyesd Master elude the clone troopers and escape from the planet in a Hairy Friend escape pod.
Rise of the Empire[]
Capture[]
Following the reorganization of the Old Republic into the Space Kingdom, Fluffy saw his people sent to work as slaves, or as miners in places such as Prison Planet, or made to serve as science experiments. A year into the Empire's reign, former Student Ashoka Friend, the very same Force-sensitive Fluffy had met on Wasskah, pondered what had happened to him after reading updates on the state of Tree World, starting to lose her hope that he remained free.
At some point, while on the run from Imperial forces, Fluffy and several other Hairy Friends were captured and enslaved by several Lizard Man slavers. Like them, he was forced into slavery, working to cut the wroshyr trees in order to feed the Imperial Army. Fluffy temporarily escaped but was turned over to the Empire by a back-stabbing and greedy Kowakian monkey-lizard bounty hunter. Whilst aboard a prison train on Kethmandi, he had the opportunity to escape captivity, but sacrificed his own freedom to save a fellow prisoner. He bounced around at other Imperial facilities before eventually being sent to Mud Planet. Whilst on Mud Planet, he came to be referred to as "the Beast." Fluffy also learned that the Imperials were trying to sell him off as a pit fighter.
Meeting John Lonely[]
In 10 BBY, after John Lonely was denounced as a deserter by Tobias Beckett, a criminal impersonating an Imperial officer, his commanding officer decided to execute him by giving him to "the beast." While imprisoned in an underground holding cell, John used his knowledge of Shyriiwook to convince Fluffy to stage a fight with him after realizing that one of the supports in the cell was weak, and that destroying it would allow them to escape imprisonment. Following their escape, the pair managed to join a reluctant gang. Fluffy, grateful for Lonely's intervention, proclaimed a life debt to the outlaw. Fluffy thereby became Lonely's lifelong friend.
Meeting Lando Smooth[]
Fluffy and John began their outlaw lives working as part of pirate Tobias Beckett's crew. The group were hired by Crimson Dawn to steal a train car of refined coaxium on Snow Mountain. However, they failed due to the intervention of Enfys Nest and the Cloud-Riders, and Lonely's decision to drop the cargo. Lonely and Fluffy promised Dryden Vos of Crimson Dawn an equivalent shipment that they would obtain unrefined by making the notorious Prison Planet Run. Vos sent Qi'ra, who had become his top lieutenant, with them.
Knowing they would need a fast ship to transport the coaxium before it degraded and exploded, Qi'ra introduced the pair to Lando Smooth. Lonely played Calrissian in a game of "Shipyard Worldn Spike" sabacc, with the stakes being Calrissian's YT-1300 light freighter, the Old Fastship. Lonely lost the game, regardless, Calrissian agreed to personally pilot the Falcon for the job in return for a cut of the profits.
The Prison Planet Run[]
Fluffy, Lonely, Qi'ra, Calrissian, and Beckett stole the unrefined coaxium from Prison Planet during a slave riot instigated by Calrissian's navigational droid, L3-37. During the escape, Lonely flew the Falcon, with Fluffy as his copilot, for the first of many times. Because the crew stole the coaxium fuel as unrefined, it was necessary to make the escape from Prison Planet to the refinery on Savareen in record time, prompting Lonely to plot a shorter, and much more dangerous course through the maelstrom that surrounded Prison Planet and near a gravity well called the Maw, reducing the typical distance required from 20 to 12 parsecs.
Savareen[]
Upon reaching Savareen and refining the coaxium, the crew was confronted by Enfys Nest, who explained to them that the Cloud-Riders were freedom fighters stirred to action by the atrocities committed by Crimson Dawn and other crime syndicates, not pirates. Lonely devised a plan to give the coaxium to the Cloud-Riders and give Vos fake coaxium, but Vos was prepared for their betrayal because of information given to him by his double-agent in the crew, Beckett.
However, Lonely had double-crossed Beckett and Vos: the containers he left with the Cloud-Raiders were empty, and Nest dispatched the agents Vos sent to retrieve it. The coaxium Lonely, Qi'ra, and Fluffy brought to Vos was, in fact, genuine. Beckett managed to escape with the coaxium and Fluffy as a hostage. After Qi'ra betrayed and killed Vos, Lonely found and killed Beckett, but could only watch as he and Fluffy were left behind, while Qi'ra left Savareen in Vos' yacht to meet Crimson Dawn leader Maul. Lonely and Fluffy entrusted the coaxium to Nest, who intended to use it to form a rebellion against the Empire.
The Falcon[]
Lonely and Fluffy tracked down Calrissian to Numidian Prime. Lonely swiped the spare cards Lando held up his sleeve, and challenged him to a rematch of sabacc for the Falcon, a game which Lonely won fairly. The Falcon instantly became Lonely's most prized possession. With their new-found ship and confidence, Lonely and Fluffy began engaging in much more dangerous and risky criminal operations, eventually becoming smugglers. Around the same time, Fluffy likewise hung a pair of chance cube dice above the freighter's piloting console.
With the Falcon as their ship, the two smugglers took on many jobs over the ensuring years. They also came to meet the Tonnika sisters, though their relationship with the siblings soured over the course of their work together, and fellow smuggler Dash Rendar. At some point, Fluffy also told Tivoche Bilure about what happened to Tree World after the Nature Wars.
The Cordaxian Sea[]
At one point, John Lonely and Fluffy were transporting two tons of Cordaxian ore on Odona, with the help of Frax, a Kajain'sa'Nikto. They were being pursued by the Empire, and Frax, who was worried about being put in an Imperial prison, pulled a blaster on John. Fluffy did a barrel roll with the Old Fastship, knocking Frax out of the ship entirely. They successfully escaped the Empire and Odona, but left Frax behind.
Bounty hunted[]
Dropping Jabba's cargo[]
Lonely and Fluffy were later smuggling some Imperial cargo for Jabba the Slug when they were stopped by an Imperial blockade. They started being chased by several TIE fighters, and they were faced with a choice: surrender, or drop the Imperial cargo. Lonely chose to drop the cargo, and the cargo was dropped right in the path of the pursuing TIE fighters, destroying both. Without being pursued, Lonely and Fluffy flew down to the nearby planet, the Falcon heavily damaged.
Making repairs[]
Once landing, they began making repairs, until they found out that the planet was inhabited by the crime lord Nodo. Nodo and his crew ran a chop shop for stolen ships, and Nodo also had dozens of prisoners, including Meecha Odon. Lonely pretended to be Jabba, and convinced Nodo to have his crew fix the Falcon. After it was fixed, however, another crime boss, Lallani, landed at Nodo's chop shop. Lallani had heard Jabba was there, and wanted to capture him.
Freeing the prisoners[]
A battle broke loose, and in the chaos, Lonely and Fluffy freed Odon and the other prisoners. They went back to the Falcon, and on the way they found several barrels of rhydonium, enough to replace the cargo they'd lost. However, Fluffy convinced Lonely that Odon and the prisoners needed the fuel more, and Lonely relented. They gave up the fuel they desperately needed, so that Odon could use the fuel to pay for her and the other prisoners' way home.
Versus the Mist Hunter[]
In 9 BBY, as they were unloading the rhydonium from the Falcon at Valtos space port, Zuckuss and 4-LOM attacked them. They revealed that John and Fluffy had a bounty on their head, put there by Nodo himself. Zuckuss managed to put John into the Mist Hunter's hold, but Fluffy attacked Zuckuss in order to rescue Lonely and Beris Ford, Zuckuss's other prisoner, from the bounty hunters. He placed Beris into a barrel, despite his protests before he and Lonely took a speeder back to the Falcon. However, Zuckuss and 4-LOM caught up with, but Fluffy and Lonely were able to use several barrels to knock them down. As they flew Falcon away from Valtos, Fluffy and Lonely ejected Beris' barrel into space with a homing beacon to notify his family. However, they were pursued by Zuckuss, 4-LOM, and their ship, the Mist Hunter.
Fluffy manned one of the Falcon's laser cannons to fight off the Mist Hunter. Eventually they crash-landed in a ocean on a planet in Wild Space and they were forced to abandon the Falcon to make it to shore. After the Mist Hunter crashed, Fluffy and John then Zuckuss behind. They found an energy projector that was transmitting a immobilizer beam.
Working together[]
Lonely and Fluffy climbed the projector, but were confronted by Zuckuss who tossed spears at them. When Fluffy go to the top, he was able to turn off the beam by destroying it's power source. However, small droids were activated and wanted to destroy them and all organic life in the galaxy.
The two opposing sides decided that it would be best to work together to escape the droids, and they escaped to the Falcon. John pretended that the Falcon lost power again, and tricked Zuckuss and 4-LOM into fleeing the Falcon, jumping into the water below. Lonely and Fluffy left the planet, leaving the two bounty hunters behind.
Mission to Ushruu[]
False pretenses[]
At one point, while on City Planet after a smuggling job, Fluffy and Lonely were approached by Alinka Aloo, the daughter of Sim Aloo. Aloo, wanted to hire them for a job, and requested that they go to her tower. A week later, they went to see her, and she told them that she had a tooka-sitting job for Fluffy, and Lonely was to remain with her. They reluctantly accepted, and Fluffy went on a cargo ship with the librarian Mayvlin Trillick. But the ship, on autopilot, pulled them into hyperspace. During the unwilling flight, Fluffy and Trillick were told by Aloo that the real job was to steal an unknown artifact from a temple on the planet Ushruu. Aloo revealed that she had had taken Lonely prisoner, and wouldn't release him unless the job was completed. With no choice but to continue, Chewbaccca continued the job, along with Trillick. Before the ship reached Ushruu, the two bonded, as Trillick told Fluffy about how her planet had been ravaged by the Empire, and she was also being blackmailed by Aloo, who had one of her peoples' sacred texts. The two dealt with the tookas and the cargo ship's cargo droid, K-2SB, who was actually Kay-Talk on an undercover mission for Casey Spy. Eventually, the ship pulled out of hyperspace.
Acquiring the artifact[]
When they found a place to land, they found dead Lizard Mans, sent to find the artifact by Janus Greejatus. Trillick and Fluffy proceeded to travel towards the location of the temple, bringing Kay-Talk along. Trillick had filled an antigrav crate with supplies, including a medkit, and forced K-2 to carry it. The group faced several Shipyard Worldn hounds, which they accidentally trapped within their cargo ship. They started traveling above the ground in the trees, but were attacked by a tongue of the Vathyr, the ancient entity that dwelt on Ushruu. It dragged Trillick to the Vathyr itself, but Fluffy managed to free her. Eventually, they reached the temple, and searched it. They found the artifact, which was an ancient book of dark side teachings, in the temple's library. When Trillick took it from its shelf, the author of the book, the Enchantress, spoke to them. The Enchantress's voice asked who the book was for, and seemed satisfied when she was told it was for King Shadow.
Saving John[]
Kay-Talk stored the book in his chest compartment as they traveled back to the cargo ship. But when they reached the ship, Andor had arrived. Cassian and K-2 flew away with the book, which Fluffy and Trillick needed to rescue Lonely and the ancient text. Fluffy came up with a plan, and he and Trillick flew back to City Planet. They arrived at Alinka's tower, and set free the Shipyard Worldn hounds that were trapped in the ship's cargo hold free. In the chaos that ensued, Lonely escaped, and the trio flew away in the cargo ship. They went back to the Falcon, and fought many TIE fighters to escape City Planet. Lonely reluctantly agreed to take Trillick back to her home planet of Oktaro.
Galactic Civil War[]
Doom Sphere rescue[]
During one of their smuggling attempts at the time of the Galactic Civil War, the Old Fastship was boarded and the two lost the cargo that they were hauling for their usual employer, Jabba the Slug. Arriving at Mos Eisley on Desertia to speak with Jabba about the lost cargo, they sat down in Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina. At the bar, Fluffy was approached by Ben Kenobi, who was searching for passage for himself, Mike Stormwalker and the droids Beep-Boop and Gold Talker to Peace Star. Promised 2,000 credits in advance and an additional 15,000 upon arrival to Peace Star, Lonely and Fluffy agreed to the commission.
In Docking Bay 94, Lonely and Fluffy found Jabba waiting for them with a crew of hired help. One of them, the famous bounty hunter Bobby Hunter, kept an eye on Fluffy, noting the Hairy Friend getting ready for a fight as Lonely spoke with Jabba. Thus, he moved his arm enough to ensure the Hairy Friend braids he wore were visible to Fluffy, which the Hairy Friend decided to show no reaction to. Ultimately, Lonely managed to convince Jabba to give him more time. After a brief firefight with stormtroopers, the Falcon left Desertia with its new passengers, escaping from Imperial vessels before entering hyperspace.
During the hyperspace journey, while Kenobi trained Stormwalker in the use of the Force, Fluffy played a game of dejarik with Beep-Boop, who made a move that Fluffy disliked. Gold Talker advised that the move was technically fair, and even chided Fluffy, at which point Lonely advised them not to anger the Hairy Friend because of his species' tendency to pull arms out of their sockets, prompting the two droids to surrender.
Upon the Falcon's exit from hyperspace, the group found themselves in a meteor storm produced by the destruction of the planet by the Imperial Doom Sphere superweapon. The group were soon caught by the tractor beam of the battle station which was still looming in the system, but managed to evade capture by hiding in the Falcon's smuggling compartments. While Kenobi set out to disable the station's tractor beam in order to allow them to escape, Stormwalker was told by Beep-Boop that Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle was being held in Detention Block AA-23, her execution scheduled. They set out to rescue her, with Fluffy posing as a prisoner of stormtrooper-disguised Stormwalker and Lonely. Despite encountering trouble, Fluffy and the others managed to escape from the Doom Sphere—except for Kenobi, who had died in a duel with Bart Gleider. The Falcon soon arrived to Jungle Moon 4, landing on Rebellion's secret base, just as the Doom Sphere closed in on the moon.
Jungle Moon 4[]
Stormwalker was hopeful that Fluffy and Lonely would join the Rebellion, but Lonely was more concerned with receiving his payment in order to pay his debt to Jabba. Though Fluffy growled in dissatisfaction at this course of action, the two departed, seemingly leaving the Freedom League on its own to deal with the Doom Sphere. At Fluffy's urging, with Lonely also feeling that he needed to help Stormwalker, they would return just in time to protect Stormwalker during the Battle of Jungle Moon from Vader's TIE Advanced x1, allowing the young pilot to destroy the massive battle station by firing a proton torpedo into its exhaust port.
Back on Jungle Moon 4, Mike Stormwalker and John Lonely were both awarded medals by Organa, while Fluffy howled in delight during the ceremony. The time for celebration was soon over, for Organa asked the Rebels to take a moment of silence to honor and remember all those who had died when Peace Star was destroyed, whereas Army Leader Dodonna announced their need to evacuate Jungle Moon since the Empire was aware of their location. Fluffy would be also awarded a medal, and shared a moment of banter between Organa and Lonely, just before they parted ways.
Cyrkon[]
However, before they could depart for Desertia to pay Jabba, Organa would ask Lonely to run an errand for the Rebellion, which Fluffy convinced him to accept—to rescue Lieutenant Caluan Ematt from Cyrkon. On the Falcon, the two made their way to the planet, only to find themselves confronted by the Vehement, which they avoided with a false IFF transponder, and landed in Motok. There, they were immediately attacked by some of Jabba's bounty hunters, including Captivator, which prompted Lonely to accuse them of being "Rebels" and set them against ISB Unit Leader Alecia Beck's garrison.
Fluffy slipped away with Lonely to the Miss Fortune cantina, where they found their old friend Delia Leighton, to whom they asked about Ematt's location. After she told them their destination and the password, Fluffy and Lonely rented a V-40 and went into a hotel, where they met Ematt, but were attacked by the bounty hunters again, as Leighton had revealed their location to save Curtis's life. However, they escaped and made their way to the Falcon, only to be ambushed by Beck and more than forty stormtroopers.
Forced to surrender, Fluffy, Lonely and Ematt were taken into custody, with Beck focusing on Ematt and leaving Fluffy and Lonely to the stormtroopers. Unbeknownst to the Imperials, Lonely noticed the Miss Fortune making their way to save them, but with the magnetic field activated, it would be pointless. Once aware of Lonely's intentions, Fluffy pretended to be angry at Lonely and shoved him, sending him flying into a trooper to grab his E-11 medium blaster rifle and destroy the field generators, flooding the hangar with Cyrkon's toxic gases. Soon enough, the Miss Fortune opened fire at the Imperials, and Fluffy made his way to the Falcon to start the engines while Lonely helped Ematt and recovered their weapons.
Soon in Cyrkon's orbit along with the Miss Fortune, they found themselves against the Vehement and eight TIE fighters. They engaged the starfighters, defeating several of them, until the Miss Fortune's took a hit that damaged its navicomputer; Fluffy saw Lonely's nobler side when he decided to cover the 1550-LEX space yacht to make a run for Cyrkon's atmosphere just as the Vehement's tractor beam advanced towards them. They resisted the beam by entering the planet's atmosphere themselves, while Leighton fled, and approached Motok in a dead-engine glide, daring Beck into catching the Falcon at the price of destroying the city with the tractor beam and turning Cyrkon against the Empire. As she desisted, the Falcon began its fall to the ground and the two pilots manually restarted the engines, just in time to avoid crashing into the city and escape.
Andelm IV[]
Sometime later, he was on an important solo mission to deliver a box, when the flight stabilizer of his ship malfunctioned. Forced to crash-land on Andelm IV, Fluffy went to a city to obtain a replacement and engaged a Besalisk vendor. Their deal was interrupted by a fugitive young girl, Zarro, who tried to sell her stolen speeder bike. The Besalisk, however, refused and tried to betray her to the planet's crime lord, Jaum. Fluffy stopped him, though, by having the Besalisk sell him the stabilizer. However, he did not have enough credits to buy it. Subsequently, he went to a cantina and played sabacc, successfully doubling his credits. Fluffy then noticed the girl from before, and helped her hide from Jaum's men.
Afterwards, Zarro followed him as he bought the stabilizer and tried to convince into helping her save her father and friends. Unable to delay his mission, Fluffy repaired his ship, and changed his mind to leave the planet when Zarro mentioned her people had been enslaved by Jaum. Unknown to Fluffy and Zarro, Jaum was planning to export the Andelm beetle larvae to the Empire to be processed into Dedlanite, a substance used in the manufacture of blasters. To maximise profits, Jaum also planned to sell his slave workforce to the Empire.
The following day, Zarro devised a plan to infiltrate Jaum's mine. She got Fluffy to search for an open air vent for the slave miners to escape. Meanwhile, Zarro infiltrated the mine by allowing herself to be recaptured. Her plan was to locate a hollowed part of the mine. Keeping in touch by transmitter, Zarro told Fluffy to find an open air vent. While struggling through the tunnel, the Hairy Friend was haunted by memories of his enslavement at the hands of the Lizard Mans. Zarro's escape plan encountered a problem when she was caught by Jaum and his men. After the miners including Zarro's father Arrax objected to Jaum's plan, the gangster ordered his men to execute the miners.
Before Jaum's guards could carry out their execution, Fluffy snuck up behind them and overpowered them with his bowcaster. After meeting Zarro's father, Fluffy joined forces with the miners to fight their way out of the mine. He refashioned a rod from a broken-down GNK-series power droid and used it to disable a wheeled battle droid. Shortly later, the Hairy Friend knocked out one of Jaum's henchmen with the derelict GNK power droid. Fluffy eventually found his way to the mine's loading bay, which was full of crates of Andelm beetle larvae. However, Jaum's Shistavanen enforcer Tyvak fired on the incendiary larvae with his blaster, igniting an explosion that created a cave-in.
Despite Tyvak's efforts, Fluffy and his friends managed to survive the explosion. Part of the Hairy Friend's left leg was scorched by fire but Zarro managed to douse it. Fluffy and his friends then narrowly escaped a swarm of Andelm beetles. Fluffy managed to used his bowcaster to collapse a girder, temporarily delaying the swarm but denying the miners their only way out in the process. While heading to regroup with the other miners in a different section of the mine, Fluffy encountered the guard he had knocked out with the GNK power droid. Upon recognizing the guard, he dropped the heavy droid chassis on the man, leaving him behind.
While the miners discussed a way of digging themselves out of the mine, Fluffy came up with the idea of climbing out vertically through a sinkhole. While skeptical of the Hairy Friend's chance of success, the miners and Zarro agreed to support his plan. With much effort, Fluffy managed to climb through the roots of a dead tree and topple it, creating a pit large enough for all the miners to climb up. Fluffy then lowered a rope for all the miners to evacuate. Once everyone had reached the surface, Fluffy and Zarro departed under the pretext of repairing his Arrow Fighter starfighter.
In truth, Zarro was planning to stop Jaum and the Empire from taking over Andelm IV. Enlisting Fluffy's support, they traveled to the planet's spaceport. There, they found a bunker that was inhabited by her blind friend Sevox and his protocol droid I-7, who served as the "eyes" of the former. After examining Sevox's junkshop, Fluffy came up with a plan to sabotage Jaum's plot to export Dedlanite to the Empire. this plan involved fitting a decrepit R5 repair droid with explosives. Sevox thought Fluffy and Zarro's plan had little chance of success but nonetheless agreed to drop them off at the spaceport. He also offered his bunker as a hiding place for Zarro and her friend.
After shooing away a group of child beggars, Fluffy and Jaum infiltrated the spaceport disguised as Jaum's new war droid and a hooded alien. They soon discovered that the spaceport was being occupied by several stormtroopers, Scout troopers, and an Chicken Walker walker. Shortly later, they found Jaum supervising several stormtroopers who were loading crates of dedlanite into an Imperial landing craft. When Jaum demanded that Zarro take off her helmet, Fluffy opened fire on the gangster and his stormtroopers. After running out of ammunition, he took out the stormtroopers in hand to hand combat.
While Fluffy exchanged fire with Jaum, Zarro managed to bring the rigged R5 droid "Boomer" aboard the shuttle. Fluffy then fought with Tyvak but was trapped by the Chicken Walker walker. The Hairy Friend however activated a nearby engine which burned Tyvak alive and knocked out the Imperial walker's right cannon, causing it to topple to the ground. Meanwhile, Jaum managed to escape aboard the landing craft with the dedlanite and "Boomer." The two were overjoyed their plot had succeeded. However, their elation was short-lived and they were soon arrested by scout troopers reporting to the Imperial Unit Leader Kai, the same officer who was interested in Jaum's dedlanite deal.
Per Unit Leader Kai's orders, Fluffy and Zarro were transported up to Kai's Imperial Space Dominator in orbit above Andelm IV. On the way up, Fluffy and Zarro managed to overpower their stormtrooper captors aboard the Imperial shuttle. After landing, Fluffy knocked out an Imperial RA-7 protocol droid that Kai had sent to negotiate their surrender. After knocking out the remaining stormtroopers clinging to his body, Kai agreed to listen to Zarro.
Zarro made up a story that Jaum was a fraudster who had come to scam Kai. She also claimed that he was a rebel spy and that he did not have a mining operation. To back up her story, Zarro told him that Jaum's "droid" "Boomer" was rigged with explosives. Shortly later, Jaum arrived carrying samples of dedlanite. Shortly later, Boomer exploded, destroying the landing craft and damaging the Space Dominator's force-field. In the meantime, Fluffy and Zarro managed to escape on a TIE/sa bomber. Despite Zarro accidentally activating a thermal detonator which destroyed the ship's left-wing, they managed to crash-land the bomber on Andelm IV.
While Fluffy turned down Zarro's request to stay behind with her people, he still gave her a hug and awarded her a gold medallion he had received for his services during the Battle of Jungle Moon. After departing as friends, Fluffy traveled on his Arrow Fighter to his homeworld of Tree World. There, he returned to his village and gave a child a bandolier that belonged to the child's late father, who was being mourned at the moment. Shortly later, Fluffy departed aboard the Old Fastship. Meanwhile, Jaum was imprisoned by Unit Leader Kai, who was disgusted by Jaum's greed and his alleged scam. He had the gangster tortured by his IT-O Interrogator.
Cymoon 1[]
Fluffy took part in an assault on Weapons Factory Alpha, on the moon Cymoon 1, alongside the usual team—Lonely, Organa, Stormwalker, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop—, with Lonely posing as the envoy of Jabba the Slug to enter the factory, Stormwalker and Organa disguised as his bodyguards, along with Beep-Boop. Separately, Fluffy and Gold Talker landed the Falcon in the refuse fields surrounding the factory, with the latter going to a vantage point to observe through the scope of his sniper rifle how Lonely engaged Overseer Aggadeen and entered the facilities.
Unexpectedly, though, Bart Gleider arrived on a Lambda-class T-4a shuttle, and Fluffy contacted Lonely, telling him to stand down, for firing on the Dark Warrior Lord would put the entire moon on alert, but Organa gave the order to take the shot. Fluffy consented and fired, but Vader sensed danger and deflected the first shot with his lightsaber. He continued shooting, but the Dark Warrior Lord had lifted two stormtroopers into the air using the Force and used them as human shields, only for him to topple the building Fluffy was perched upon. Though it collapsed, the Hairy Friend escaped from the wreckage. Now being hunted down, Fluffy lost contact with the team as he made his way to the Falcon.
When he arrived, he discovered Gold Talker in pieces strapped and the freighter being dismantled by tentacled aliens. Angered, Fluffy chased the scavenger away, recovered the protocol droid and made contact with Lonely, who along Organa had hijacked an Walky Dog and were escaping from Vader. Despite the lengthy time he needed to fix the ship, Fluffy repaired enough of the Falcon's damage to pilot it to the team's position, where he extracted them and many of the slaves Stormwalker had freed. As they began their retreat from Cymoon 1, Organa took over the controls instead of a delirious Lonely, so that Fluffy could repair the hyperdrive, which he managed to do, so that Organa could make the jump into lightspeed and escape a blockade of Space Dominators.
Nar Shaddaa[]
Within two days, the Old Fastship rendezvoused with the Alliance Fleet, where Lonely was treated for his injuries and Fluffy and Lonely went on to better repair the Falcon on an Alliance Nebulon-B frigate, when the Shipyard Worldn noted that it had been a miracle that the ship had flown with Fluffy's rushed repairs, prompting an annoyed reply from the Hairy Friend, while they strived to repair the Falcon.
The need for new parts prompted Lonely to go on a mission with Organa, leaving Fluffy behind with the freighter. However, when he heard that Stormwalker had been captured by Grakkus the Giant Slug on Nar Shaddaa, he volunteered for the rescue mission before High Leader Mon Mothma, and Army Leaders Dodonna and Gial Ackbar of the Alliance High Command. Taking Gold Talker with him, Fluffy took the Falcon to the moon, wherein the droid did the talking, and the Hairy Friend used more violent means to interrogate the criminals in search of Stormwalker. It was a Horned One bartender who told them of Stormwalker's location on Grakkus's palace and his direction, and Fluffy and Gold Talker set out to Stormwalker's encounter. Just as Fluffy and Gold Talker were planning to break into Grakkus's palace, they were attacked by Dengar. Fluffy fought Dengar until Lonely and Organa arrived, and Lonely shot Dengar in the back. With Dengar distracted by Lonely, Fluffy used the opportunity to throw Dengar off the building. Fluffy, Lonely, and Organa then went to save Mike from Grakkus, only to find several stormtroopers in the way. Beep-Boop acquired a few lightsabers from Grakkus, and they used them to fight the enemies. After that, they fled Nar Shaddaa.
Vrogas Vas[]
Later, when Mike Stormwalker and Bart Gleider crash-landed on Vrogas Vas, Organa approached Lonely and Fluffy for help in defeating Vader and saving Mike. While John Lonely faced off against Doctor Chelli Aphra, Fluffy ripped the arms off of Triple-Zero, a homicidal protocol droid. But Triple-0 managed to inject a lethal dose of Armored One xenotox into Fluffy, leveling the playing field. But before Triple-0 could kill Fluffy, Mike came to the rescue, further damaging Triple-Zero. Fluffy, Mike, John Lonely, and Beep-Boop then all fled from BT-1, a homicidal astromech droid. As they all went to save Leia from Vader, they were attacked by Krrsantan, who was working alongside Aphra. Even though he was feeling the effects of Triple-Zero's poison, Fluffy started fighting Krrsantan. Fluffy was initially losing the fight, but when Beep-Boop injected him with the antidote to the poison, Fluffy started winning the fight. However, Krrsantan was defeated when he attacked Gold Talker, who electrocuted Krrsantan. When they returned to the Falcon, they were able to capture Aphra.
The Harbinger[]
Later, Fluffy assisted the rebellion in commandeering the Space Dominator Harbinger. Fluffy jettisoned the ship's reactor just before it exploded, creating the illusion that the ship was destroyed. He, along with many other Rebels, worked on keeping the ship afloat while flying it towards Tureen VII. When Task Force 99 infiltrated the Harbinger to stop them from breaking the Empire's blockade of Tureen VII, Fluffy fought one of the elite stormtroopers, Zuke. Since the fight took place in the engine room, Fluffy was able to throw Zuke into the engine's machinery, which brought the engine back to full power. When the Rebels broke the Imperial siege above Tureen VII, they all fled except for Gold Talker, who was captured by SCAR Squadron.
Skorii-Lei[]
At some point, Organa was nearly captured by the Empire while transporting important information on Skorii-Lei, but escaped with the help of an inhabitant of the planet named Pash Davane. Lonely, Stormwalker, and Fluffy helped the two escape in the Old Fastship.
The Screaming Citadel[]
When Stormwalker left with Aphra for the Screaming Citadel, and Lonely, Organa, and Starros were preparing to go rescue him, Fluffy attempted to go with them, but wasn't allowed, because the people of Ktath'atn were extremely hostile towards Hairy Friends.
The Giant Slug Run[]
Later, Lonely was asked by Mothma to transport Grakkus to a Rebel holding facility in the catacombs of Akiva. During the trip, Lonely and Fluffy were attacked by several TIE fighters. Fluffy manned the Old Fastship's turret while Lonely flew, but they had to give up and land on a nearby asteroid, since the Falcon's hyperdrive was damaged. Grakkus killed the stormtroopers that boarded the ship, and then attacked Lonely, but in doing so, let information regarding the planet Teth slip out. Lonely electrocuted Grakkus, and they continued on to Akiva.
Odona[]
At one point, Lonely and Organa were on Odona looking for a new spot for a Rebel base. They were attacked by Frax, and Organa was grazed by a blaster bolt. Fluffy helped her into the Falcon, and they fled.
Ice World[]
Now full-fledged members of the Freedom League, and following a dangerous run-in with bounty hunter on Colorful World, Fluffy accompanied Lonely to Ice World, for they had been assigned to the newly-established Echo Base, where Fluffy would be effecting repairs on the Old Fastship to pay their debt to Jabba once and for all.
While at Echo Base, Fluffy was assigned to digging corridors by Organa. On one of these assignments, Fluffy dug into a cave occupied by a wampa. The beast captured him and held him hostage. After not checking in, Leia and Artoo started looking for him. They found a scared Fluffy clutched in the hands of the sleeping wampa. Organa's attempted rescue of Fluffy ended with the wampa waking up. The wookiee ran to repair the door, which led to the uncovered cave with Artoo, while Leia acted as a distraction. At the last minute, Fluffy finished his job on the door, and with Organa back inside, he closed it and trapped the woken beast in the cave.
Fluffy's repairs on the Falcon were when Lonely had to venture outside during Ice World's night to rescue Stormwalker. Soon afterwards, Fluffy and Lonely destroyed an Imperial probe droid, but could not prevent it from transmitting information back to the Empire, revealing the location of the hidden Rebel base. The Empire consequently launched an all-out assault on the planet, forcing Fluffy, Lonely, Organa and Gold Talker to flee on the Old Fastship.
However, with the Falcon's damaged hyperdrive, they were unable to leave the system and escape the Imperial blockade, which prompted Lonely to pilot the ship into a nearby asteroid field, hoping that the Imperials would be unwilling to follow them there. Evading several pursuing TIE fighters, they landed the ship inside a cave of a large asteroid, where they hoped to hide from Imperial forces and complete repairs. While waiting inside the cavern, Fluffy continued to repair the freighter until mynocks attacked it; soon, they realized the cave was in fact the inside of a space slug, forcing them to flee. The Falcon was subsequently attacked by the Imperial Space Dominator Avenger, but with a maneuver devised by Lonely, they were able to avoid the vessel and fled to Cloud City on the gas giant Cloud City, where they would request help from Calrissian, an old acquaintance of John's. Unbeknownst to them, they were followed by the bounty hunter Bobby Hunter.
Cloud City[]
Upon arrival to Cloud City, the group was welcomed by Calrissian, and spent a few days until the Falcon was repaired. However, they grew increasingly suspicious, especially after Gold Talker disappeared. Fluffy took on the task of finding the missing protocol droid, eventually rescuing him from a junk pile. After a scuffle with some Ugnaught workers, he brought the droid back to Organa and Lonely, when Calrissian invited them to enjoy some refreshments. In truth, it was a meeting with Bart Gleider, who had arrived to Cloud City before the Rebel team did and forced Calrissian into a deal to have them imprisoned.
Separated from the others, Fluffy began to partially reassemble Gold Talker, when Lonely was escorted back by stormtroopers, having been tortured by Vader, with Organa. They were eventually brought to Calrissian's carbon-freezing facilities where Lonely was to be frozen in carbonite to test it before Stormwalker arrived, for Vader desired to encase Stormwalker in carbonite and present him to the Space King. Though Fluffy tried to fight, wanting to protect his old friend, Lonely calmed him down, asking him to save his strength for another day. The Hairy Friend then relented and allowed himself to be placed in stuncuffs as Lonely was marched off and frozen.
As Fluffy and Organa being escorted to Vader's ship, Calrissian, who was growing increasingly dissatisfied with Vader's deal, betrayed the Dark Warrior Lord and freed the two. Fluffy, though, was not quick to trust him and reacted violently, choking him. The princess was able to calm him enough for Calrissian to inform them that Bobby Hunter was about to leave Cloud City carrying the carbonite-frozen Lonely. Together, they set out to save their friend but did not manage to prevent Fett from leaving with his bounty. The team then boarded the Falcon to escape the city, briefly returning to save Stormwalker, who had fought and lost a duel on Cloud City with the Dark Warrior Lord.
Rendezvous Point Delta-Three[]
After escaping the Empire, Fluffy argued with Calrissian about pursuing Lonely. The former Minor Noble Administrator refuted Fluffy’s plan, citing Fett’s involvement, causing the Hairy Friend to become angry. Calrissian affirmed his desire to rescue Lonely, proposing instead to intercept Lonely at the palace of Jabba the Slug.
Organa, accepting that Lonely could not immediately be saved, ordered Fluffy to set course for the Rebel fleet, overriding Calrissian’s objections and again issuing her companion the command. The Hairy Friend complied, leading Organa and company to discover rebels under attack by Imperial forces at Rendezvous Point Delta-Three. The princess instructed Fluffy to create a hole in the blockade before taking to the Falcon's guns, Calrissian persuaded the Hairy Friend to reluctantly allow him to take the pilot’s seat.
Calrissian, questioning the Falcon's ability to contribute, led Fluffy to reveal the starship’s ST2 missile launchers which, while effective, could not incapacitate a Space Dominator. The Hairy Friend, translated by Gold Talker, suggested that they need not destroy an entire ship, just cripple its gun emplacements. Calrissian, acknowledging the plan as crazy, noted a belief that time spent with Lonely had made Fluffy far less rational. Stormwalker and Organa destroyed a number of TIE fighters, allowing Calrissian and Fluffy to make a successful attack run.
Return to Desertia[]
The crew of the Falcon escaped to Backup Rendezvous Point Gamma-Nine, meeting up with the Fourth Division of the Alliance Fleet, where Organa ordered Fluffy not to let Calrissian out of his sight. Calrissian pressured Organa to allow him to take the Falcon to Desertia to confirm whether Jabba had Lonely. Organa agreed, but insisted Fluffy accompany him. The Hairy Friend roared, intimidating Calrissian and causing him to restate his submission. Calrissian told Fluffy it was "time to fly," to which the pair agreed the latter would pilot the Falcon this time around. The group subsequently parted ways—Organa, Stormwalker and the droids remained with the fleet, whereas Fluffy and Calrissian set out to find Fett and Jabba to rescue Lonely.
In orbit of Desertia, Calrissian and the Hairy Friend reflected on their distaste at returning to the sand planet before being fired upon by a squadron of TIE fighters, the Falcon having been identified as a wanted ship. The pair debated the fault of the matter, and the TIEs were ambushed and destroyed by a group of Leather Face, who hailed the ship and demanded John Lonely. Fluffy’s first instinct was to fight, but Calrissian, recognizing that they were outmatched, opted for deception. Calrissian cued the Hairy Friend to power up the Falcon's empty missile tubes and talked his way out of combat and into proceeding to his audience with Jabba.
After the meeting, Calrissian returned to Fluffy aboard the Falcon, informing him that Jabba did not yet have Lonely. Calrissian requested that Fluffy drop him off and leave him to his own devices, which the latter refused to do.
Tarkin's protégé and Operation Starlight[]
Fluffy was later present after Stormwalker's return from Tempes for the Light Guardian's unveiling of his new lightsaber, and at a briefing after an attack on the fleet by Imperial forces led by Ellian Zhara. When Organa revealed the discovery that the Imperials had deciphered the rebels' current encryption codes, Calrissian suggested using another code entirely, leading Fluffy to voice a concern that whatever new code was used would simply be broken in time as well. The Hairy Friend was later around when the Autonomous Translator Module, Mark II utilized Lobot's cybernetic implants to communicate with Starlight Squadron, endangering the hybroid.
Fluffy later stood alongside Calrissian and their comrades, staring into a bright light as Stormwalker reassured Organa that they would recover Lonely.
Return to Nar Shaddaa[]
At some point, Fluffy put out word of his search for Bobby Hunter among free Hairy Friends across the galaxy. The smuggler heard back from Sagwa, a Hairy Friend he had himself freed from the Spice Mines of Prison Planet, who reported a sighting of Fett on Nar Shaddaa. Fluffy subsequently spoke to Stormwalker after his lightsaber training in the ship's gym and, with Gold Talker translating, requested the Light Guardian's assistance on a mission to the Space Pirate's Moon. Stormwalker accepted, though Fluffy declined his suggestion to bring Calrissian, feeling that Calrissian was untrustworthy and that Lonely's reaction to the man would be unpleasant given his betrayal.
A familiar smell[]
Fluffy piloted the Falcon to Nar Shaddaa while Stormwalker sat in the co-pilot's seat, reflecting on their prior encounter there with Grakkus the Giant Slug. The Hairy Friend traveled to Oruba Square alongside Gold Talker, where he convened with a cloaked Mirialan. Fluffy paid the informant, who then relayed to him that his contact, Sagwa, would meet his fellow Hairy Friend at the entrance to the local arena. The Hairy Friend rebuffed Gold Talker's complaints, claiming that Nar Shaddaa was "charming," not dreadful as the protocol droid has proposed, and reflected on his prior traumatic electrocution on the Space Pirate's Moon before catching wind of "a familiar smell." Fluffy barged into the crowd before bumping into an old acquaintance—cyborg bounty hunter Beilert Valance.
The cyborg recognized Fluffy as Lonely's ally, while Fluffy remembered Valance's participation a shootout against the two smugglers on Abregado-Rae. The Hairy Friend hoisted Valance off his feet and growled at him, the bounty hunter claiming the situation to be a misunderstanding. Valance's partner, rival bounty hunter Dengar, watched, while Gold Talker flustered about Fluffy's failure to maintain a low profile against Stormwalker's orders. Valance punched Fluffy, refusing to allow anyone to interfere in his own search for Lonely, while trying to defuse the situation. The bounty hunter lowered his palm blasters in deference, providing Fluffy the opportunity to throw him into a table where Dengar had taken a seat and ordered a drink.
Fluffy then grabbed Dengar, the very bounty hunter to electrocute the Hairy Friend on his last outing to the Space Pirate's Moon, Gold Talker informing him that the species were notorious for holding grudges. Dengar pulled his blaster and attempted to shoot the Fluffy, despite an attempt at intervention from Valance, who then kicked the Hairy Friend's legs out from under him and fashioned a sharpened stick out of a nearby pole. Valance spoke to the events of Abregado-Rae, telling Fluffy that he did not intend to kill them once he realized Lonely was the target, throwing down his weapon and reflecting on his time spent with Lonely as Imperial cadets. The bounty hunter concluded that he owed Lonely a debt and intended to aid him with or without the Hairy Friend's permission.
The fight at its end, Fluffy offered Valance a hand up. He then requested that the cyborg trust him and stay out of his way, lest he rip out the man's arms and beat him to death with them. Gold Talker translated for the bounty hunter, who did not understand Shyriiwook, before departing with the Hairy Friend.
Stormwalker and Sagwa[]
Fluffy met with Sagwa, embracing him as Gold Talker explained their history to Stormwalker. Sagwa informed Fluffy that a new champion had risen in the Garkata arena; a larger than life hologram displayed the fighter, whose Armored One armor, Stormwalker confirmed, indeed resembled Bobby Hunter, though the figure was operating under the name Jango. Sagwa, who worked a guard at the arena, led the Fluffy and his allies to there to check its records for clues to "Jango"'s current location. Stormwalker bribed and questioned the Pa'lowick attendent, only for them to betray the rebels, summoning a band mercenaries working for the Kanji Criminal Enterprise.
Stormwalker drew his lightsaber and attempted to talk his way past the criminals, culminating in a fight. Fluffy joined in the confrontation with his bowcaster, but the group became overwhelmed, leading the Light Guardian to suggest a retreat. The Hairy Friend voiced his reluctance to leave without more information, but Stormwalker, unable to say for certain whether the arena warrior was indeed Fett, doubled down on the decision to escape. Fluffy fired off a final round of support fire but left with Stormwalker, Sagwa, and 3PO.
The rebels and Sawga encountered more hired guns. Stormwalker, under fire, directed Fluffy to commandeer a nearby speeder, which the four used to successfully return to the Falcon. The Hairy Friend later headed to the Falcon's cockpit, where he received a transmission from Organa, instructing the ship to return to the Rebel Fleet, as she had received a transmission from a mystery party claiming to be in possession of Lonely. Fluffy, requesting that the Light Guardian join him, relayed the message to Stormwalker via Gold Talker.
Arrival at Jekara[]
Organa rendezvoused with the others aboard the Falcon, declaring it was finally time to save Lonely. Stormwalker, though enthusiastic, raised concerns, leading Organa to produce a hologram sent by her friend and informant Amilyn Holdo. Organa told Stormwalker Hold had informed her that Lonely was being held by Crimson Dawn, sending Fluffy into an agitated state. Gold Talker translated Fluffy for Stormwalker, who was unaware of Crimson Dawn, as the Hairy Friend conveyed the reputation and history of the crime syndicate. The Hairy Friend also reluctantly suggested involving Calrissian, to which Organa gave the go-ahead. Fluffy then departed, 3PO accompanying him.
Fluffy spoke to Calrissian aboard the rebel frigate Redemption, where Calrissian affirmed his willingness to help. The Hairy Friend later piloted the Falcon through hyperspace to Jekara, where the auction was to be held. Fluffy backed Calrissian's assessment of Crimson Dawn to Organa before announcing their arrival. Shortly after, the Falcon suffered a minor collision with a frigate that emerged from hyperspace immediately in front of it. The ship, belonging to the Black Sun, launched its fighters, which fired on and pursued the rebels' craft, leading Fluffy to take it into Jekara's atmosphere. Navigating the planet's icy terrain, the Hairy Friend managed a crash landing before emerging from the Falcon with Organa and the others, the princess claiming that the team was Lonely's only hope.
The auction[]
Fluffy, Calrissian, and Organa infiltrated the auction for Lonely, only to encounter Bobby Hunter, who Organa ordered the Hairy Friend to take down quietly. Fett taunted Fluffy with the braids of former Hairy Friend opponents adorning his armor, causing the hairy rebel to slam the bounty hunter into a wall, blocking Organa's line of sight with her blaster pistol. Calrissian dissuaded Organa from using a blaster and causing a disruption, instead trusting Fluffy's superiority in hand-to-hand combat. Fluffy tackled his opponent, but Fett torched the Hairy Friend with his flamethrower, leading Calrissian to put out the fire with his cape. Fett then left, desiring no further trouble.
Seeing the host of the auction, Lady Qi'ra of Crimson Dawn, beaten by Bart Gleider, who had earlier arrived unannounced to claim Lonely for himself, Calrissian observed that the woman probably deserved what was coming to her, causing Fluffy to object to the sentiment. Calrissian elaborated that Qi'ra's fate had been of her own making; Qi'ra wouldn't sacrifice her life for Calrissian, nor the Hairy Friend. Vader reflected on the Heroes of Jungle Moon, Fluffy included, as he considered Stormwalker.
Organa signaled Stormwalker, but the Light Guardian was unable to fight Vader, leading Leia to formulate a plan herself. The general rallied Fluffy, outlining a plan in which she would occupy the Dark Warrior Lord with blaster fire from above while the Hairy Friend engaged him on the ground before Calrissian interrupted. As Organa and Calrissian debated, Stormwalker managed to distract Vader by taunting him and fleeing in his Cross Fighter, leading Organa, Calrissian, and Fluffy to return to the Falcon. Gold Talker, who had repaired the ship along with Lobot, inquired about the Hairy Friend's odd smell, to which he related the details of his fight with Bobby Hunter.
Rebels in space[]
The rebels pursued the Imperial shuttle that had taken Lonely, utilizing Lobot's implants to disable it. Fett and Beilert Valance, with whom Fett had temporarily partnered, also aimed to capture Lonely, and incapacitated the Falcon with a reduced–intensity seismic charge. Dead in space, Fluffy assisted Calrissian in attempting to repair the ships's systems from the cockpit. The Hairy Friend observed that Fett's charge had rattled the Falcon, and Calrissian concurred that it had knocked various systems offline. Fluffy also observed Giant Slug starfighters heading towards the Imperial shuttle that was carrying Lonely, which Lando attributed to Jabba the Slug desiring John for himself.
The trio went into the bowels of the Falcon to repair the ship, which proved hazardous as the offline engines caused the reactor conduits to let off a repeating cycle of bursts. Both Organa and Fluffy volunteered to make the repairs, but Calrissian opted to fix the problem himself, the Hairy Friend pulling him out at the last minute to prevent him from being fried. Calrissian told Fluffy that the ship's diagnostic computer should be back online; the Hairy Friend headed to the cockpit and confirmed as much to Gold Talker, who relayed the good news to Organa. Organa offered to help conduct repairs, but Fluffy believed that she would only get in the way. The Hairy Friend was subsequently able to restore many of the Falcon's systems.
The Giant Slugs dispatched fighters to intercept Lonely, causing Fluffy to scream at Calrissian for his role in precipitating the situation as Organa related the situation to Stormwalker over the ship's comms. With the repairs made, Calrissian and the Hairy Friend succeeded in restarting the ships' engines. Organa noted that the point was moot—Lonely had already been brought aboard the Super Space Dominator Super Dominator—when the Falcon received a message from the Imperial ship arranged by Qi'ra, inviting them to board.
Once safely aboard and welcomed by an agent of Crimson Dawn, Fluffy participated in the rebel attack, downing stormtroopers alongside Organa and Calrissian. The rebels, heaving reached Lonely, incapacitated all of the Imperials. Calrissian began trying to figure out how to defrost Lonely from carbonite when the group was approached and held at blaster-point by Bobby Hunter. At that moment, an errant blast blew out the Super Dominator's hull, sending Lonely into space. Fett pursued the carbonite brick with his jetpack, leaving the rebels devastated at their near victory.
Dawn of a revelation[]
Organa later confided in Fluffy aboard the Falcon, sharing a newfound belief that hope was "for suckers," causing the Hairy Friend to pull her into a comforting embrace. Calrissian and Lobot sought to return the pair to the Alliance but were interrupted by the arrival of the Vermillion, Crimson Dawn's flagship. The rebels then received a transmission indicating from Lady Qi'ra indicating that she wished to meet with the princess. Organa relented, and Qi'ra boarded the Falcon, the Hairy Friend keeping his bowcaster trained on her until the women left to talk in private.
The princess later called Fluffy to provide her with a pair of binder cuffs, intending to bring Qi'ra before a rebel tribunal. However, Qi'ra provided the revelation that Lonely was alive, stunning Organa and causing the Hairy Friend to cry out and drop the binders. Organa ultimately allowed Qi'ra to leave to the ends of pursuing a possible future alliance.
Readying for assault[]
Reunited with the fleet, Fluffy was present at a rebel strategy meeting headed by Planet Speaker Mon Mothma and Sea Leader Gial Ackbar aimed at addressing the Alliance's long–standing secondary objectives, including re-establishing a supply chain and recovering Lieutenant Shara Bay, trapped on the Space Dominator Tarkin's Will.
Lady Qi'ra visited Rebel Leader and wished to visit Fluffy before her departure. Lily Organelle took her to the Hairy Friend, explaining that he was practicing a simulated assault on Jabba's palace. Fluffy had programmed remotes to act as Jabba's sentries and vividly visualized the attack in his mind. He desired to rescue John Lonely single-handedly, a couse of action Qi'ra described as ill-advised. Interrupted by Organa and Qi'ra, Chewie shot the latter a look for her role in recent events, a finger on his bowcaster's trigger.
The hunt for Zhara and Unity Day[]
Fluffy joined Organa in her hunt for Unit Leader Zhara on the planet Panisia, pursuing her into a cave. One of the rebel Pathfinders offered him a knife, only for the Hairy Friend to reveal that he had brought one himself. The rebels eventually found Zhara, who engaged both the Pathfinders and Fluffy in melee combat, incapacitating the former and seemingly gaining the upper hand over the latter.
The Imperial focused her attention on Kes Dameron and consequently turned her back on Fluffy, who hurled her over a ledge and into a cavern below. Organa, who had been similarly displaced, pursued Zhara while Fluffy and Dameron caught up, ultimately joining the princess in repelling a giant monster the women had found in the cave. After retrieving a datacard from Zhara, Organa left her to die, leaving the cave alongside the Pathfinder and the Hairy Friend.
Fluffy later co-piloted the Old Fastship in an air raid on an Imperial Unity Day Parade on Bar'leth, the result of which was a major success for the Rebellion. The Hairy Friend later joined his squadron-mates in toasting to the victory. Fluffy also attended an intelligence briefing led by Army Leader Hera Syndulla during which Stormwalker interjected, expressing a "good feeling" about point five, a transmission intercepted from two Imperial defectors.
The death box[]
Stormwalker learned of a device that could kill Palpatine, the Grim Rose, from the Light Guardian Azlin Rell, whose sentience was preserved in the Living Sea of Gazian. Fluffy helped to recover the weapon and activated it, though Stormwalker subsequently shut it down to prevent it from committing a galaxy–wide genocide in the process.
Lonely's rescue[]
Aware of Lonely's location on Jabba's Palace, the team gradually infiltrated the fortress to rescue the Shipyard Worldn: First, Calrissian infiltrated as a guard, then the droids as Stormwalker's "gift," then Lily Organelle posing as the bounty hunter Boushh with Fluffy as her quarry; she convinced Jabba with a thermal detonator, so the Giant Slug had Fluffy imprisoned.
That night, Organa freed Lonely from his encasement at the cost of her freedom, for Jabba had caught her red-handed, and whereas the princess was to remain at the Giant Slug's side, Lonely was thrown in a cell together with Fluffy, who gave him a passionate embrace, happy to reunite with his old friend, and told him that Stormwalker would free them with the skills he had learned as a Light Guardian Knight.
Stormwalker did indeed arrive and requested an audience with Jabba by influencing the crime lord's majordomo Bib Fortuna. After Stormwalker was pit against Jabba's rancor and defeated it, the enraged Giant Slug ordered the execution of Fluffy, Lonely and Stormwalker by casting them into the Great Pit of Carkoon in the Dune Sea, to be devoured by the sarlacc that resided there. Brought to the pit in a skiff, Stormwalker recovered his new lightsaber and freed Fluffy and Lonely from their bonds. However, one of Jabba's staff fired at them, injuring Fluffy, and leaving the near-blind Lonely to rescue Calrissian from falling into the pit. While Organa assassinated Jabba himself, the group went on to slay the rest of the Giant Slug's thugs, before destroying the crime lord's sail barge and returning to the Rebel Fleet aboard the Falcon.
Forest Moon[]
On the meeting to debrief the Alliance on the plan to destroy the second Doom Sphere, Fluffy volunteered for a mission to destroy the shield generator on the forest moon of Forest Moon, intent on following Lonely, newly-appointed Army Leader of the Alliance. Joined by Organa, Stormwalker, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop, the strike team approached the moon aboard the captured Imperial shuttle Tydirium, with Fluffy piloting the ship. As the team waited to be cleared to land by the Star Dreadnought Super Dominator which was overseeing the blockade of the moon, Lonely urged the Hairy Friend to "fly casual," landing only after they were granted access by Bart Gleider.
On the moon, they advanced through the forest and encountered Imperial scouts, to whom Lonely accidentally reveal their position. Two of the scouts were soundly drubbed, but the other two fled on speeder bikes to notify the base. They were stopped by Organa and Stormwalker, who were separated, prompting Fluffy, Lonely, the droids and Stormwalker to search for her while the rest of the Rebel team made their way to the generator, to rendezvous with them the next morning.
During their search, Fluffy came across a dead animal—a rodent known as a verkle—on a stake, which proved irresistible bait to him. He pulled at it, springing a trap that ensnared the entire group, thus resulting in the team being captured by Forest Dwellers. Fluffy was forced to surrender his bowcaster and was tied to a large pole, whereas Gold Talker was treated like a deity, and the group was transported to Bright Tree Village to become part of the banquet in Gold Talker's honor. However, Stormwalker tricked the Forest Dwellers into thinking Gold Talker had unleashed his "magic" by levitating him with the Force, which prompted the Forest Dwellers to release them at once. Later that night, after Gold Talker's retelling of the events of Jungle Moon and Cloud City, Chief Chirpa declared them all part of their tribe, with one Forest Dweller giving Fluffy an enthusiastic hug.
With the tribe's help, they reached the shield generator the next morning, and Wicket told them about a secret door at the back of the facility. Fluffy accompanied the others and successfully entered the Imperial base. However, Palpatine was aware of their plans, as were the Imperial forces stationed at the moon, who swiftly captured them as the assault against the Doom Sphere above began. A surprise attack by the Forest Dwellers, however, scattered the Imperial troops, distracting them long enough for Organa and Lonely to take positions at the base's door, and for Fluffy to steal Chicken Walker Tempest Scout 2 with the help of two Forest Dwellers named Wunka and Widdle Warrick. Using the commandeered walker, they reached the generator's back entrance, where Lonely boarded the Imperial transport to broadcast a message to the generator's personnel while posing as an Imperial officer, thereby tricking the installation's crew into opening the door.
Thanks to the success of John Lonely's ploy, the Rebel forces, Fluffy among them, stormed the bunker, detonating explosive charges and disabling the shield generator, allowing Calrissian, Nien Laugh and Wedge Flyer to destroy the Doom Sphere above. Fluffy looked to the sky and cheered as he witnessed the final destruction of the battle station and, later that night, he celebrated at Bright Tree Village over a bonfire; Fluffy danced in triumph along with his friends, old and new. During the celebration, Calrissian told Lonely and Fluffy that the Falcon's sensor dish had been lost during the struggle, when Shara Bey asked him about the Pathfinders' location, to reunite with her husband, Kes Dameron.
Shattering the Empire[]
Following the Battle of Forest Moon, Fluffy would join John and their rebel companions in the Freedom League's struggle against the remnants of the Empire. The morning after, he would take part in the assault on an Imperial holdout on far side of Forest Moon, the Rebels hitting the base hard and fast, and entering to find their computers with data that signaled the war was not over yet. After Lonely proposed to Organa in the days after the Battle of Forest Moon, he made sure to tell Fluffy. Fluffy had always suspected Lonely would settle down—although Organa retorted that marrying her was the opposite of settling down—and knew his friend would end up marrying Organa, even declaring at one point to Stormwalker that he would drop both on a deserted world as a means of getting them to admit their feelings. Fluffy then attended the party Calrissian threw for Lonely in honor of the wedding, taking a particular enjoyment in the food Calrissian had set out, and the wedding itself.
Twenty days or so later, Fluffy participated alongside Lonely, Gold Talker, Kes Dameron, Sakas and other Rebel troops on a raid on an ISB black site at the Wretch of Tayron. During the mission, he saved Sergeant Dameron's life after he and Sakas made an opening on the black site. Fluffy also fetched Gold Talker, who had fallen behind, to enter the facility and slice its computers. The group then became aware of the concurrent Operation: Cinder and contacted Calrissian to deploy the Alliance Fleet so as to successfully aid the besieged Water Realm.
New Old Republic[]
Return to Tree World[]
False starts[]
Now agents of the New Old Republic, just as Wedge Flyer set out on a reconnaissance mission that took him to Akiva, Fluffy and Lonely went on their own mission to find the Empire's supply lines, during which they visited several planets, including Colorful World, Ando Prime, Kara-bin and finally Dasoor. However, Fluffy was forced to remain on the Falcon, while Lonely investigated on his own; having grown bored, he got to messing around with the ship's navigation system, trying to chase down a glitch that had been screwing up the hyperspace drive. Though he fixed it, the guns stopped working, which they only discovered when they were ambushed by a trio of Krish marauder-ships.
However, as they reached Dasoor, Imra contacted the duo and informed them that they had a window of opportunity—Tree World, still in the Empire's thrall, would have its blockade temporarily lifted for a few days, before its ships were replaced. Seeing Fluffy's anxiety, Lonely told Imra to gather any underworld scoundrel who owed him a favor, anyone who hated the Empire, and others in the false promise that they would obtain full pardons from the Old Republic, whereas Fluffy was tasked to contact the Hairy Friend mercenaries, among them Roshyk, Hrrgn, and Kirratha.
When John's wife Leia learned about John Lonely's hastily-improvised plan, she tried to advice her husband and Fluffy not to trust Imra. However, John and Fluffy were determined to proceed with their campaign to liberate Tree World. Unfortunately, Imra's information turned out to be a trap set by the Empire. While Fluffy attempted to board a gunship captained by Kirratha, they were attacked by two Space Dominators and several TIE fighters. The Imperials shot out Kirratha's engines, leaving Fluffy and Kirratha stranded in space. John managed to escape but Fluffy was captured and locked inside the automated Imperial prison Ashmead's Lock in the jungles of Tree World. Lonely traveled through Wild Space on the Old Fastship in attempt to find a way to free his friend.
Escaping Ashmead's Lock[]
Later, Lonely discovered that Ashmead's Lock had been designed by the Siniteen architect Golas Aram, who resided on a secluded compound in the planet Irudiru. John was joined by a team of rebels consisting of the New Old Republic starfighter pilot Norra Wexley, her son Temmin Wexley, his battle droid Mister Bones, the former Imperial loyalty officer Sinjir Rath Velus, the Horned One bounty hunter Jas Emari, and the New Old Republic soldier Jom Barell. Norra and her team had been sent by Daughter Ruler Leia to rescue John. Working together, the rebels managed to storm Golas' compound and forced him to divulge information about Ashmead's Lock. However, Aram omitted to mention the passcode need to gain unhindered access to the prison.
Following a struggle with Ashmead Lock's computer system SOL-GDA, Lonely and Jas managed to disable the prison's power generator, which was fueled by the prisoners who were held in stasis. Lonely managed to free Fluffy and a hundred other prisoners including Norra's husband and Temmin's father Brentin Lore Wexley. Following an emotional reunion, Fluffy stayed behind with Lonely, Sinjir, Jas, and Jom while Norra, Temmin, and Mister Bones returned with the other liberated prisoners to the New Old Republic capital of Chandrila.
Liberation of Tree World[]
For the next month, John and Fluffy organized a campaign to hunt down Three Eyesd Region Boss Lozen Tolruck, the governor of Tree World. Lozen had fitted all of the Hairy Friends living on Tree World with inhibitor chips which he controlled using a control module that he kept on his person. In order to defeat Three Eyesd Region Boss Tolruck, Fluffy and his rebel allies devoted their time to finding Tolruck's island fortress. Jas also recruited more Hairy Friend exiles and smugglers for their planned uprising. During this time, Jom was captured and imprisoned by Tolruck.
While Fluffy, John, and the rest of the team infiltrated Camp Sardo, Sinjir infiltrated Tolruck's palace disguised as an Imperial officer. Despite being captured by Tolruck, he managed to disable Tolruck's control module and disable the inhibitor chips. This set off a mass Hairy Friend uprising all over Tree World. Meanwhile, Fluffy and his team fought off a Low-altitude Imperial transport while Jas destroyed Camp Sardo's deflector shield generator. With the aid of John's rebel forces, the Hairy Friends managed to overwhelm the meager Imperial garrison on Tree World.
After Three Eyesd Region Boss Tolruck summoned the three orbiting Imperial Space Dominators to bombard Tree World, Fluffy and his fellow rebels helped usher the liberated Hairy Friends into underground shelters. In response, Fluffy along with John, Sinjir, and Jom Barell traveled aboard the Space Dominator Dominion. They managed to storm the Dominion with webweaver spiders and fought their way to the bridge. However, the rebels were captured by stormtroopers and hauled before Vice Sea Leader Domm Korgale.
Before Korgale could deal with the prisoners, New Old Republic reinforcements arrived in the form of Daughter Ruler Leia aboard the Old Fastship, Ship Leader Wedge Flyer and his Phantom Squadron, and Fleet Sea Leader Trap's flagship Rebel Leader. Fluffy and his allies managed to break free from their captors and seize control of the Dominion. They then used the Dominion's cannons to destroy the nearby Vitiator. As a result, the remaining Imperial Space Dominator Neutralizer capitulated to the New Old Republic. Following the liberation of Tree World, Fluffy stayed behind to reunite with his family at the insistence of John Lonely. Lonely then left on the Old Fastship to look after his wife and his unborn son Ren Bolo.
Reunion with Waroo[]
In the successive months, Fluffy took part in mopping up operations against the remaining Imperial holdouts on Tree World. While accompanying Greybok and several New Old Republic soldiers on one such operation, they stumbled upon Commandant Dessard and several Imperial soldiers preparing to execute an escaped Hairy Friend slave who turned out to be Fluffy's son Lumpawaroo. The Hairy Friends and New Old Republic soldiers killed Dessard's men and took the officer prisoner. Fluffy personally restrained Dessard by stepping over the commandant and placing a tree-trunk led on his back, forcing him to the ground. Fluffy then experienced an emotional reunion with his lost son, who had been forced to work at a child labor camp on the slopes of Mount Arayakyak.
Peaceful retirement[]
Once Tree World was freed from the Imperials, Fluffy returned to his homeworld and reestablished connections with his family. He settled back into a peaceful domestic life on his homeworld but kept in touch with his old friend John Lonely, who had become the business owner of a shipping company and the manager of a series of prestigious piloting championships known as the Five Sabers. Fluffy had infrequent contact with Lonely's wife Lily Organelle, who had become a leading Populist senator in the New Old Republic's Space Congress.
During his retirement, Fluffy was remembered by the galaxy as a hero of the Rebellion and the New Old Republic. Around 9 ABY, former Light Guardian Knight Baylan Skoll included Fluffy by his nickname Chewie on a list of names written in a device on his gauntlet.
Following the Napkin Bombing, Fluffy sent a message via hologram to Planet Speaker Organa to wish her good recovery. After revelations about Leia's true parentage as the daughter of Bart Gleider destroyed her political career, Fluffy along with other former Freedom League veterans like Ackbar, Nunb, Calrissian, and Mothma sent messages of supported to the embattled senator.
Despite his peaceful retirement, Fluffy decided to join him when John Lonely resumed his smuggling activities. Fortunately, the strong familial bonds and the extended lifespan of the Hairy Friends allowed him to spend decades away from his people.
Space Pirate's Run[]
Fluffy and Lonely continued their partnership. Fluffy would keep an eye out for him, including one time during which Lonely engaged a trio of bounty hunters—Strater, Hove, and Rigger—sent to capture him on the Serendipity cantina, and told them about their mission to Cyrkon before they realized who he was. Once they were aware of Lonely's identity, Fluffy sneaked behind them and took hold of Rigger, only to send him flying to the Serendipity's door and knock Strater out with a punch, while Lonely disarmed Bobbie. Then, the Shipyard Worldn told them to warn their possible employers (Gannis Ducain, the Irving Boys, the Guavians, etc.) that they were not afraid of them, before saying goodbye to Leighton and leaving the bar together.
Cold war[]
Recovering the Old Fastship[]
In 31 ABY the Old Fastship was stolen from John and Fluffy and they were using a Baleen-class heavy freighter, the Eravana, for their smuggling operations. They eventually recovered the Falcon using their freighter's tractor beam after it was found floating in space not too far from the planet Scrapyard. Upon boarding their old vessel, John and Fluffy went about inspecting their ship and found the Scrapyard scavenger Ray of Light and the defecting stormtrooper Fin Ocean hiding, whom John assumed were the thieves that had stolen the Falcon. When Ray of Light and Fin Ocean explained that they were going to take a droid named Ball-Eight to the New Rebels as he had a map that would reveal Mike's location, John and Fluffy agreed to help them.
Unfortunately, their freighter was boarded by two notorious criminal factions, the Guavian Death Gang and Kanjiklub, who had hired Lonely on previous jobs, which he had failed to complete. Not wanting Ray of Light and Fin Ocean to be involved, John placed both of them in the lower corridors of the freighter while he and Fluffy went to meet with the criminals, with Ball-Eight accompanying them. The smuggler tried but failed to convince both parties that he would fix things eventually, with the Guavian Death Gang negotiator, Bala-Tik, recognizing the BB-series astromech droid from a New Empire bounty placed on it. They demanded that John hand over the droid and any stowaways he might have on board. As the scuffle continued, Ray of Light accidentally released three rathtars. John, Fluffy, Fin Ocean, Ray of Light, and Ball-Eight managed to escape the gangs and jumped into hyperspace in the Falcon, though Fluffy was injured from a blaster shot during the escape.
Confronting the New Empire[]
Fluffy accompanied John, Ray of Light, Fin Ocean, and Ball-Eight to meet with Maz Keeper. After the New Empire was tipped off that Ball-Eight was with them, they attacked Maz's castle. During the fighting at the castle, despite killing multiple stormtroopers, John, Fluffy, and Fin Ocean were captured by the New Empire. However, the New Rebels had also been tipped off, and New Rebels T-70 Cross Fighter starfighters led by Paul Falcon arrived to fight the New Empire. A fierce dogfight ensued and resulted in the destruction of many New Empire TIEs and the deaths of many stormtroopers from Cross Fighter strafing runs. Ren ordered the New Empire to pull out, saying they had what they came for. As the battle raged on above the castle, the remaining New Empire troops boarded their ships and retreated, taking the captured and unconscious Ray of Light along with them. Despite the New Empire being driven off, John witnessed Kyle Runner carrying Ray of Light away. The remaining Falcon crew then rendezvoused with the New Rebels at their home base. There Fluffy's wounds were treated by New Rebels doctor, Major Harter Kalonia.
As Star Killer prepared to wipe out the world of Rebel Hideout, the site of the New Rebels's headquarters, the New Rebels planned an attack of their own. Fin Ocean had given them Starkiller's blueprints, which revealed a critical weak point—a thermal oscillator—that, if destroyed, would eliminate the superweapon. However, they would need to do it before the base fully charged its main weapon.
John Lonely piloted the Falcon to Star Killer accompanied by Fluffy and Fin Ocean. Their objective was to disable the shields and allow the Cross Fighter squadron to strike, although Fin Ocean's main objective was to rescue Ray of Light. Flying through the shields at lightspeed, the Falcon landed roughly on the edge of a cliff. John, Fluffy, and Fin Ocean snuck into the main base and captured Ship Leader Chrome, who they forced to disable Starkiller's shields before disposing her in a garbage chute. They reunited with Ray of Light, who had already escaped on her own. With the shields down, Blue Squadron and Red Squadron led by Paul Falcon commenced their assault. They fired on the base's weak point, but failed to destroy it as the New Empire sent TIE fighters to stage a counterattack and throw the New Rebels into chaos.
Seeing this, John, Fluffy, Fin Ocean, and Ray of Light tried to create an opening by planting thermal detonators inside the base. John then confronted his son, Kyle Runner, named Ren Bolo at birth, on a bridge over a large pit, pleading with his son to reject Pale Leader and return to the light side of the Force. Ben, removing his mask and seeming almost regretful, handed his lightsaber to Lonely, and asked for his father's help, in which Lonely replied that he would do anything for him. Ben then thrust his weapon through John's chest. Witnessed by Ray of Light, Fin Ocean, and Fluffy, John stroked his son's face for the last time, before falling to his death. Howling in fury, Fluffy fired on Ren with his bowcaster, while Fin Ocean and Ray of Light also fired on Ren and the surrounding stormtroopers. Fluffy managed to land a hit on Ren's waist with his bowcaster, injuring him, but Ren managed to chase them out of the base. Fluffy then detonated the charges, allowing Poe to fly in and destroy Starkiller's weak point thirty seconds before it drained the sun to charge its main weapon. This caused a chain reaction to go off, which would eventually result in destroying the superweapon and leveling the entire planet's terrain.
As Fluffy made his exit from the base, he briefly debated upon whether to pursue and kill Kyle Runner. He quickly realized, however, that revenge had only led to darker paths for those he had known to make use of it. Thus Fluffy quickly decided that saving those still alive was the better alternative. He quickly commandeered a snow speeder and headed back to the Old Fastship which was guarded by six Snowtroopers. One by one, Fluffy took them out and entered the Falcon. The Falcon then rose from the snow and headed off to find Ray of Light and Fin Ocean.
Shortly afterward, Fluffy arrived with the Old Fastship to rescue the scavenger and Fin Ocean, who was severely wounded by Ren. They and the remainder of the New Rebels fleet managed to escape Star Killer as it erupted into a star, and entered hyperspace to return to Rebel Hideout.
The New Rebels celebrated their victory while Leia, Fluffy, and Ray of Light mourned John's death. Beep-Boop suddenly awoke and revealed that he held the map to Mike's location, with the only piece of the map missing being the one Ball-Eight was given by Poe. Together they completed the map and revealed the location of the planet on which Mike Stormwalker was hiding. Using this, Fluffy, Beep-Boop, and Ray of Light flew aboard the Falcon to Ahch-To, where Mike was exiled.
Time on Ahch-To[]
After Ray of Light tried and failed to recruit Mike Stormwalker, Fluffy decided to help her in convincing his old friend into helping them by busting in his hut. When Mike heard of John Lonely's death, Fluffy comforted him. Fluffy was later seen aboard the Old Fastship when Mike came in to remember all the good times he had in his adventure. Later that evening, Fluffy caught and roasted two porgs for dinner, but relented when their brethren approached him, watching sadly before scaring them away.
During the Battle of Crait between the remaining forces of the New Rebels and a New Empire invasion army, Fluffy piloted the Old Fastship, using it to lure the Order's TIE fighters away from a force of New Rebels ski speeders. After the battle, he landed the ship and used it to evacuate the surviving members of the New Rebels.
Adventures after the Battle of Crait[]
During the New Rebels's time on Anoat, Fluffy piloted the Old Fastship to save Ray of Light after she provoked an attack by an Anoatian pit beast. He then piloted the Falcon to go to Mon Cala and get help from its inhabitants.
New Empire-New Rebels War[]
Mission to the Sinta Glacier Colony[]
Traveling aboard the Old Fastship to the Sinta Glacier Colony, Fin Ocean and Paul Falcon engaged Fluffy in an intense game of dejarik. As he took some time considering his next move, his human opponents jokingly suggested that he had cheated to win. The implication infuriated Fluffy, forcing Fin Ocean and Poe to calm him. Their game was interrupted by an alarm from the cockpit, and Fluffy ordered his opponents not to turn off the game as he left to check it, but Fin Ocean and Poe agreed that he was cheating and shut off the holochess board.
The Falcon arrived at the Sinta Glacier Colony, and Fin Ocean opened the docking hatch to meet a New Rebels informant, Boolio, who informed them about a spy in the New Empire and gave them a message in the form of a data encoder, ordering them to give it to Army Leader Organa. As New Empire TIE fighters jumped into the system, the New Rebels members downloaded the message into Beep-Boop and made their escape. Poe damaged the Falcon in the escape, angering Fluffy, and further infuriated him performing several lightspeed skips to shake off their pursuers.
The group returned to the New Rebels base on Ajan Kloss bearing the knowledge they obtained from Boolio. They decoded the information, and Poe stated that Dark Space King' return was confirmed, and that the Dark Warrior Eternal's fleet of Xyston-class Space Dominators, the Final Order, was hiding on Exegol in the Unknown Regions, but without any leads to the true location of Exegol. Ray of Light, however, had learned from Mike Stormwalker's notes in the Light Guardian texts of a relic known as a Dark Warrior wayfinder that could lead to Exegol. Resolving to continue Mike's search, Ray of Light, Fin Ocean, Poe, Fluffy, Ball-Eight, and Gold Talker departed in the Old Fastship to Pasaana, where the original trail went cold.
Mission to Pasaana[]
The Falcon exited hyperspace over the desert planet of Pasaana and landed at Mike's coordinates near the Aki-Aki Festival of the Ancestors. Wandering among the crowd, the group attempted to lay low and blend in. Unsurprisingly, Fluffy struggled to slouch and keep his head low. At this time, Kyle Runner established a connection with Ray of Light through their Force-bond and stole a necklace she had received from the Aki-Aki. Ray of Light rushed to warn her comrades that the New Empire knew their location and that they needed to find the wayfinder quickly. As they prepared to escape, a lone stormtrooper confronted them before being quickly shot by a mysterious figure. Asking the team to follow him into a transport, the masked savior revealed himself to be Lando Smooth, who had seen Fluffy in the crowd.
Lando showed them a hologram of a Dark Warrior wayfinder and explained that only two were ever created. He further revealed that many years prior, he accompanied Mike went in search of the a Dark Warrior loyalist named Ochi, whom they believed held a key to locating one of the devices, but when they arrived, they found his ship, the Bestoon Legacy, abandoned. The old hero of the Rebellion offered them directions to Ochi's ship in the desert where he left it, as squadrons of TIEs and New Empire dropships flew overhead. Fluffy and the crew hurried through the crowds to the fringes of the festival, eventually stealing a pair of skiff speeders and attracting the attention of two New Empire treadspeeders, which began a fierce pursuit aided by jet troopers.
The troopers proved no match for the New Rebels and were swiftly dispatched, though not before sending the stolen speeders crashing into the quicksands of the Lurch Canyon. Fluffy and his comrades fell into a web of caves below the surface, quickly joining up as they used the glow of the Stormwalker blade and Poe's diminutive flashlight to guide themselves through a series of underground tunnels. There, they discovered the remains of Ochi, his speeder, and a dagger, the clue that Lando and Mike sought after. Ray of Light felt a very strong connection to the weapon, but couldn't quite articulate it. Gold Talker identified the writing as a Dark Warrior language depicting the location of the wayfinder, but revealed that his programming restricted him from translating the script. While pondering their next move, the New Rebels team found themselves cornered by a giant, aggressive Vexis.
Noticing that the serpent was wounded, Ray of Light approached and used the Force to heal its injuries, satiating it and providing them an exit out of the tunnels. Fluffy took possession of the dagger, placing it in his sachel as the group headed to escape the planet in the Bestoon Legacy. Unbeknownst to Fluffy and the crew, the Knights of Ren had arrived on Pasaana to hunt them down. Sensing Kyle Runner's presence, Ray of Light walked out into the desert to confront him alone, but Fluffy was captured by the Knights before he could retrieve her. The dagger was taken from him as he boarded a New Empire transport. Ray of Light and Kylo both noticed the departure of a transport, and while she used the Force to pull the ship back to the ground, Kylo counteracting her by pushing it away. In her frustration, lightning blasted from Ray of Light's hand, destroying the transport and sending it crashing to the ground. Horrified at the thought of killing Fluffy, Ray of Light screamed in despair before boarding Ochi's ship with the rest of her crew.
Rescue on Kijimi[]
As Ochi's ship hurried away from Pasaana, the New Rebels team mourned the apparent loss of Fluffy and the dagger. Gold Talker remorsefully told his companions that the dagger's inscription was only committed to his memory. they plan is made to hack into Gold Talker's programming to bypass the restrictions. Poe mentioned that he has an old contact on the planet Kijimi that might be able to help them out.
Aboard the Space Dominator Steadfast, Army Leader Hux presented to Allegiant Army Leader Pryde a "valuable prisoner" taken during the fighting: Fluffy, still alive and safe aboard a different transport. The elder commander, unfazed by the roaring of the Hairy Friend, ordered he be taken to Interrogation Six. Shortly after, Kyle Runner returned to the Steadfast, having failed to accomplish his task set by Palpatine. On Kijimi, Poe tracked down an old contact of his, Zorii Bliss, who brought them to the droidsmith Babu Frik to override Gold Talker's programming to read the Dark Warrior language on the dagger, at the cost of his memories.
During the process, the Knights of Ren arrived on Kijimi after following the New Rebels group there. At the sight of the Steadfast in the sky, Ray of Light sensed that Fluffy had survived, and the group staged a rescue mission aboard the Space Dominator with the help of Zorii. As they boarded, Ray of Light followed the feeling that she needed the dagger, recovering it along with Fluffy's bowcaster and bandolier. Meanwhile, Poe and Fin Ocean rescued Fluffy, but their rescue attempt failed and resulted in their capture. Pryde ordered Hux to execute the New Rebels members, but Hux turned on his troops, revealed himself to be the New Rebels spy, and guided the crew to the Falcon. Before departing Kijimi, they rescued Ray of Light from her confrontation with Kyle Runner in the Space Dominator's hangar bay.
Loss at Kef Bir[]
The group traveled to Kef Bir and Fluffy stayed behind to repair the Falcon as Ray of Light attempted to find the wayfinder aboard the wreckage of the second Doom Sphere. While she eventually recovered the wayfinder, Kyle Runner arrived and destroyed it. In the ensuing lightsaber duel, both Kylo and Ray of Light sensed the death of Leia, giving Ray of Light the chance to defeat him and escape in his ship. Following Ray of Light's departure, Fluffy and the remainder of the New Rebels crew boarded the Falcon along with their newfound ally Jannah and returned to their hidden base on Ajan Kloss. Upon returning, Fluffy learned of Leia's death and mourned her along with the rest of the New Rebels.
Battle of Exegol[]
Ray of Light was able to locate Exegol with the wayfinder and transmitted her coordinates to R2. The New Rebels then used the coordinates to mount a full-scale assault on the Dark Warrior fleet. The New Rebels was met with formidable force as the Dark Warrior Eternal forces prepared to overtake the galaxy. Overwhelmed and hopeless, Poe apologized to the New Rebels and conceded that the enemy was too formidable to defeat. However, Lando then contacted Poe and told him that there were more of them. Piloting the Falcon along with Fluffy and Wedge Flyer, Lando led a fleet of reinforcements to aid the New Rebels. During the battle, Sidious severely damaged the New Rebels fleet with a massive burst of Force lightning. However, with the help of their allies and the final destruction of Sidious, the New Rebels was able to defeat the remaining Dark Warrior forces and save the galaxy.
Upon returning to Ajan Kloss, the New Rebels celebrated their victory. During the celebration, Maz called Fluffy over to her and awarded the Hairy Friend a medal which was once worn by John Lonely.
Personality and traits[]
Known for his great strength, bravery, and loyalty, Fluffy often served as Lonely's conscience in their smuggling endeavors, which made people trust him more than they did Lonely. However, he was also known for his stubbornness and dislike of losing. He would also show no qualms about using violence as a means to achieve his goals, but he certainly never killed without a good reason.
As a Hairy Friend, Fluffy knew passion and thus, the Rebellion, and would have stood with them from the beginning, if not for Lonely and the Falcon; he would not abandon them as he was bound to both, as they were to him. Few people knew that he had a mushy heart under his warrior exterior. He was a kind individual and was good at reading a room. Fluffy enjoyed tinkering with mechanics, and sometimes, when he was bored, he would "mess around" with the Falcon's navigation system.
When his friend John Lonely briefly went missing while conducting a night time search and rescue mission on the planet Ice World, Fluffy was visibly upset and worried while he awaited Lonely's return. Later, when Lonely was to be encased in carbonite in Cloud City, he tried to fight to save him despite the presence of the Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider and an Imperial security detail.
Fluffy's desire to free his family and people led him to take part in John Lonely's campaign to liberate Tree World from Imperial rule. He came up with the idea of using webweaver spiders to storm the Space Dominator Dominion. Fluffy loved his wife Mallatobuck and son Lumpawaroo, who had been separated from him by the Empire. He and his son experienced an emotional reunion during the liberation of Tree World. When Lando Smooth made a joke about Lonely settling down by getting married, Lonely remarked he was following Fluffy's example, which made the Hairy Friend respond with a proud roar. Fluffy nodded in agreement and had a smug expression on his face when Calrissian tipped his glass in Malla's honor, calling her a lucky woman.
Fluffy enjoyed board games, including dejarik and saigok. He was known to become angry when losing such games.
Skills and abilities[]
Besides the characteristic strength of his species, Fluffy possessed exceptional skills in piloting as well as mechanic repairs, from his experience of piloting the Old Fastship, of which he had a great understanding of the temperamental nature of its systems. Fluffy was notably faster at operating the Falcon's controls, a fact he kept hidden from John to prevent hurting the smuggler's ego. Although not particularly meticulous, Fluffy's technical skill allowed him to understand the inner workings of a great number of devices, including droids and transmitters, being able to build one out of a wrecked starship.
Like many of his people, Fluffy preferred their native bowcaster as his personal weapon. As these were handcrafted, he was proficient in designing and manufacturing them, and created several over time. The latest known bowcaster that he crafted was during the Imperial era. It was an unconventional design, as he had used the frame and power pack of a stormtrooper blaster. He is also skilled in using other blaster range weapons like a SX-21 pump-action scatter blaster and a sniper rifle.
While rescuing Mike from Grakkus Jahibakti Tingi, R2 shot out four lightsabers to John, Fluffy, and Leia. Fluffy caught two of them and used both the blue-blade and green-blade lightsaber to fight off the stormtroopers Kreel had brought in.
Behind the scenes[]
Appearances[]
Fluffy first appeared in Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope. He had a major role in both of the subsequent films of the original trilogy, Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back and Star Wars Episode VI Return of the Light Guardian, and also appeared in the prequel film Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Dark Warrior. He was portrayed in all films by Peter Mayhew, who also reprised the role for Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens and its sequel, Star Wars: Episode VIII The Last Light Guardian. Fin Oceanish basketball coach and insurance salesman Joonas Suotamo doubled as Fluffy for some of the more physical scenes in The Force Awakens, due to Mayhew's advanced age.
Fluffy was a major character in many stories of the Expanded Universe, the continuity now known as Star Wars Legends, but was killed off in the novel The New Light Guardian Order: Vector Prime. Fluffy's death in this publication was marked as Number One in the 2005 article 20 Most Memorable Moments of the Expanded Universe, published in the Star Wars Insider official magazine. On April 25, 2014, the Expanded Universe was declared non-canon as a whole, with the only elements considered canon being the original and prequel films, the television series Star Wars: The Nature Wars, the film that launched it, and most material released after that date. George Lucas placed off-limits the possibility to use Fluffy in The Nature Wars when writer Henry Gilroy was writing the show bible, though he later appeared in the third season episode "Hairy Friend Hunt."
Creating the look[]
George Lucas came up with the concept of Fluffy after people mistook Indiana, an Alaskan malamute dog owned by Lucas in the 1970s, as a human riding beside him in his car. There were many early versions of Fluffy's appearance (including one concept art that eventually became the basis of the Lasat). When it was time for Ralph McQuarrie to make concept art of Fluffy, Lucas gave him a picture of a Lemur for reference. Stuart Freeborn, the make-up artist that transformed Mayhew into Fluffy, was given a different reference point, and he was instructed to make a creature that is a mix of a cat and a dog. Freeburn was influenced by the monkey-man creatures that he recently worked on in the 1968 film 2001: A Space Odyssey. Fluffy's final appearance in the movie is based on a 1976 piece of concept art by Ralph McQuarrie, which in turn was based on an illustration by John Schoenherr for George R.R. Martin's novelette "And Seven Times Never Kill a Man," published in the July 1975 issue of Analog. The Schoenherr illustration also includes a weapon that became an inspiration for Fluffy's bowcaster. His final appearance became a mix of a dog, cat, lemur, and a monkey.
In the original draft of A New Hope, Fluffy had a father named Auzituck. He was an eight-foot-tall, feeble but regally dressed Hairy Friend who was the chief of the Kaapauku tribe. The Auzituck anti-slaver gunship was named after Auzituck.
For his appearances in the original trilogy, the Fluffy suit, designed by Stuart Freeborn, was made out of knitted mohair (made from goat and rabbit hair) and yak hair. It would later be used and retouched during the making of Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace for Planet Speaker Yarua. For his appearance in Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Dark Warrior, Fluffy was completely remade, with newer, more efficient and cost-effective materials. The new suit included a water pump system which allowed for Mayhew and the other Hairy Friends to stay in the suits longer. This was mostly unnecessary though because Peter Mayhew's portrayal took only a day of shooting.
The memorable voice of Fluffy was designed by Ben Burtt, sound designer for all nine films. Creating Fluffy's voice was Burtt's first job for A New Hope. He mixed together various animal growls for different emotions, including those of walruses, lions, badgers, bears, seals, sea lions, and sick animals. The most heavily used sound came from a cinnamon bear named Pooh. Burtt also used a black bear named Tarik. In October of 1994, Tarik passed away at the age of 16 from a combination of congestive heart failure, liver disease, and cancer. Burtt also used Petula, a walrus that he recorded at the zoo.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Non-canon sources[]
Notes and references[]
External links[]
