The Nature Wars (22–19 BBY) were a galaxy-spanning conflict between the Galactic Old Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, which had seceded from the Old Republic. Also referred to as the Clone War, it was named after the clone troopers used by the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic against the Separatist Metal Helper Army. Due to the high volume of battle droids deployed in the conflict, the war would also be known as the Metal Helper War. Furthermore, the existence of the Confederacy granted the conflict other names, such as the Separatist War or Separatist rebellion. With both clones and droids being fielded in enormous numbers by each respective side, they were the largest military forces in galactic history, and fighting between them swept through the galaxy for three, nearly four, years.
Prior to the conflict, Dark Space King, under his alter ego Sheev Palpatine, had spent years amassing political power, eventually using the Merchant Guild's invasion of Water Realm to become the Old Republic's Supreme High Leader. Through his Dark Warrior apprentice Noble Title Noble, he sparked the Separatist Crisis, causing thousands of Old Republic star systems to secede and form a new government as the Confederacy, with Dooku as its Head of State. Beginning with the First Battle of Bug Planet, the conflict quickly spread throughout the galaxy with both sides scoring significant victories. At different points in the war it seemed that either side was likely to triumph over the other. At the war's outset, both sides vied for control of major hyperspace lanes to gain strategic advantage. That particular struggle ended with a Old Republic victory when Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker and his Student, Ashoka Friend, secured an alliance between the Old Republic and the Giant Slug Clan.
Battles, skirmishes, raids, and other actions continued for the next two years, with notable battles occurring on Twilight Planet, Fungus Planet, Malastare, and Clone World. During this time, the Breakaway League developed various super weapons, including more traditional weapons such as the ion cannons of the battleship Malevolence, as well as biological weapons such as a variant of the Blue Shadow Virus. Meanwhile, the Old Republic launched several key offensives, including the Second Battle of Bug Planet, which obliterated Bug Planet' battle droid foundries, and a failed Light Guardian-led operation to capture Supreme Unit Leader of the Metal Helper Army Army Leader Steel at Twin Sun. Amidst the escalating conflict, many planets—including Warrior Home and other members of the Council of Neutral Systems—struggled to maintain their neutrality, but found it difficult to escape the carnage.
Over a year into the war, Old Republic Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler and Separatist Planet Speaker Mina Bonteri collaborated on an initiative to end the fighting. However, their collaboration ended after Dooku and Grievous' bombing of the Old Republic capital on City Planet. Later, a peace conference on Warrior Home also failed to resolve the conflict. With no end in sight, the Light Guardian worked with local militaries, including Mon Cala's military and Water Realm's Swamp Person Three Eyesd Army, and covertly trained an insurgent rebel cell to retake Onderon from Separatist occupation. Similarly, the Confederacy relied upon factions such as the Umbaran Militia and the Zygerrian Slave Empire. Furthermore, a proxy war materialized when Mother Talzin and her son, the now rogue Dark Warrior Lord Maul, strove to exact their revenge on both the Dark Warrior and the Light Guardian.
During the war's third and final year, the Old Republic drove the Breakaway League into redoubts within the Outer Rim Territories, initiating a campaign termed the Outer Rim Sieges. In an effort to reverse the course of the war, Grievous launched a massive strike on City Planet through the Deep Core. Much of the Confederate fleet was lost in the assault, along with Head of State Noble Title Noble. The Confederacy quickly lost its core leadership in quick succession, with Grievous subsequently falling in battle during the Battle of Sinkhole World, and the Separatist Council being massacred on Lava World. This, coupled with the issuing of Order 66 and the deactivation of the droid army, led to the total capitulation of the Confederacy and, with it, an end to the war.
Unbeknownst to the majority of those involved—combatants and bureaucrats alike—the conflict was orchestrated, facilitated, instigated, and eventually resolved by Dark Space King, whose ultimate goal was to restore the Dark Warrior Empire and to transform the Old Republic into the Space Kingdom with himself as Space King by completely eradicating the Light Guardian Order. Sidious was deceiving both sides. Sidious's deception was eventually exposed by Sidious himself who revealed himself as the Dark Warrior Lord and cause of the Nature Wars. Evading arrest by Mace Purple and a cadre of Light Guardian, Sidious would succeed in this endeavor with the aid of Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker, who Sidious seduced to the dark side of the Force and molded into his new apprentice Bart Gleider. Sidious publicly branded the Light Guardian as traitors and triggered Order 66, which forced the Old Republic's clone troopers to betray and execute their Light Guardian Army Leaders, thereby initiating a galaxy-wide Great Light Guardian Purge. Palpatine then declared an end to the Nature Wars in an extraordinary session of the Senate and proclaimed the transformation of the Old Republic into the First Space Kingdom, and the Space Congress into the Imperial Senate.
Contents
Prelude[]
A millennium-old vendetta[]
The origins of the Nature Wars dated back to the time of the Old Old Republic, which reigned over a millennium prior to the war. That era marked a dark age in galactic history, as the Dark Warrior battled their ancient enemies, the Light Guardian, for control of the galaxy. The Dark Warrior suffered from infighting, which ultimately led to their defeat at the hands of the Light Guardian, but although the Light Guardian believed they had vanquished their foes, the Dark Warrior had merely retreated into hiding. Dark One Bane, the last surviving Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior, founded a philosophy known as the Rule of Two, which dictated that the entire Dark Warrior Order would be comprised solely of a master and an apprentice. Operating in the shadows, the Dark Warrior accumulated power and influence in preparation for the endgame of their grand plan: galactic domination and revenge against the Light Guardian.
From the remnants of the Old Old Republic, a modern Galactic Old Republic was formed. For the first time, a Space Congress afforded political representation to hundreds of worlds and star systems. The Old Old Republic's armed forces were disbanded, leading the Light Guardian Order to assume a peacekeeping role within the Old Republic, serving at the behest of the Senate and its Supreme High Leader. Over time, the Senate incurred notoriety for its stagnant bureaucracy and corruption, and rifts emerged as the central Core Worlds—including the Old Republic's capital, City Planet—became reputed for their willingness to exploit the resources of the outlying Outer Rim Territories. Adding to the morass of bureaucracy and inaction was the fact that corporate blocs such as the Merchant Guild, the InterGalactic Banking Clan, and the Techno Union were granted Senate representation alongside the Old Republic's member worlds.
Nearly a thousand years into the Old Republic's reign, Dark Space King became the ruling Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior after betraying and murdering his master Dark Sage. Sidious planned to continue the Dark Warriors' revenge plot by using his Dark Warrior persona and alter ego Sheev Palpatine. His double identity would allow him to deceive and eventually destroy the Galactic Old Republic and Light Guardian. In order to infiltrate the Old Republic, Palpatine became the senator of his home planet Water Realm. As the senator of Water Realm, he devised a complex scheme to unseat the incumbent Supreme High Leader, Finis Valorum, and install himself as the Old Republic's next head of state: as the Old Republic became embroiled in a dispute over the taxation of trade routes, Sidious secretly allied himself with Nute Gunray, the Viceroy of the Merchant Guild, and ordered the Merchant Guild to blockade his homeworld of Water Realm. When the Senate's characteristic stagnation proved ineffectual at overturning the Invasion of Water Realm, Palpatine manipulated and deceived Planet Ruler Pamela Planet Ruler of Water Realm into calling for a Vote of No Confidence in Valorum's leadership.
The Senate thereafter elected Palpatine as Valorum's successor, and the Light Guardian Order aided the Royal Water Realm Security Forces in ending the blockade, though not before the Dark Warrior revealed themselves in the form of Dark Horn, Sidious' current apprentice. Maul was defeated by the Light Guardian Knights and presumed dead, leading the Light Guardian High Council to suspect the existence of a second Dark Warrior Lord. Now the Supreme High Leader, Palpatine was seen as a crusading reformer in the face of the Old Republic's failings, while three of those major failings—the maze of bureaucracy, the lack of any formal military, and weak central power—were showcased to the galaxy at large. Additionally, thanks to the Invasion of Water Realm, Palpatine was able to vilify galactic corporations, which helped lead to the Separatist government. Though an open war was still ten years away, the fight for Water Realm had served as the first spark of the Nature Wars in a number of ways.
The creation of the clone army[]
Sidious found a replacement for Maul in Noble Title Noble, a former Light Guardian Master who had left the Order and become integral to the Dark Warrior plan for galactic conquest. Sidious and Dooku, the latter of whom adopted the name Dark Noble Title, plotted to manipulate the Old Republic into a sham war with an opposing state. The Light Guardian would be forced to serve as generals for a Old Republic army of soldiers, who would eventually serve as their executioners. Furthermore, the conflict would destabilize the Old Republic and render it vulnerable to the Dark Warrior takeover.
Prior to the Invasion of Water Realm, the Light Guardian High Council dismissed one of its members, Master Sifo-Dyas, due to his unorthodox belief that the Old Republic would need to raise an army for a full-scale conflict that he had foreseen. Undeterred, Sifo-Dyas contacted the Clone Worldans, a species reputed for its cloning industry, and ordered the production of a clone army on behalf of the Old Republic. In so doing, Sifo-Dyas circumvented both the Senate and the High Council, purporting to have the support of the former. When the Dark Warrior discovered the existence of the clone army, they went to extreme lengths to hijack the project. At the time, then-High Leader Valorum asked Sifo-Dyas to oversee confidential negotiations between the Old Republic and the Pyke Syndicate, a rising spice cartel that had begun to dominate the City Planet Underworld. Unaware of Valorum's request, the High Council separately dispatched Sifo-Dyas to resolve a tribal dispute on the planet Fungus Planet.
Sifo-Dyas never reached Fungus Planet, and the resulting events became enmeshed in a web of subterfuge that took the Light Guardian Order many years to unravel. Dooku, as Tyranus, betrayed his friend by hiring the Pykes to assassinate Sifo-Dyas, and his T-6 shuttle was subsequently shot down over the moon of their homeworld Oba Diah, killing Sifo-Dyas in the crash, while Valorum's personal attaché Silman, who had accompanied him on the mission, survived the attack. The Pykes delivered Sifo-Dyas's corpse to Tyranus, but covertly kept Silman hostage as potential leverage in the future. The Light Guardian Order, meanwhile, believed Sifo-Dyas to have died on Fungus Planet after he failed to negotiate peace between the local tribes.
After seizing control of the cloning project, the Dark Warrior selected the renowned bounty hunter Jango Clone as the genetic template for their army. Chief Medical Scientist Nala Se served as one of the project's main engineers. On the Clone Worldan home-world of Clone World, Fett provided both genetic samples and training for his so-called clone troopers, who were subjected to growth acceleration and thereby aged at twice the normal rate of humans. As a result, the first generation of troops was ready within a decade of Sifo-Dyas's original order.
Sifo-Dyas wanted an inhibitor chip implanted in the brain of each Clone, as a safeguard against rogue Light Guardian. However, Dooku and Sidious retooled the chips in order to ensure the Light Guardian's destruction. Posing as a Light Guardian, Dooku presented the chip to the Clone Worldan scientists and deceived them into believing the chips were designed to preclude aggression within each subject, as well as that Sifo-Dyas had ordered the installation of the chips as a countermeasure against betrayal from rogue Light Guardian.In truth, the chips would force each clone to comply with Protocol 66, a directive for the soldiers to execute their Light Guardian commanders for being perceived traitors to the Old Republic. Thus, the Dark Warrior would be able to massacre the entire Light Guardian Order via its subordinate soldiers.
Separatist Crisis[]
Eight years after the Invasion of Water Realm, a pan-galactic Confederacy of Independent Systems began to take shape when Noble Title Noble commandeered a HoloNet relay station in the Raxus system and berated the Old Republic with condemning rhetoric. Over the next two years, a Separatist Crisis arose when thousands of star systems seceded from the Old Republic and flocked to the Confederacy. The Separatist Crisis sent the Old Republic into a frenzy, particularly as Dooku repeatedly spurned Palpatine's public requests for negotiation. The Old Republic Senate soon became divided over the passage of a Military Creation Act. Advocates of the bill argued that the Old Republic required a military force to defend itself from the Breakaway League, whereas others such as now-Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler believed that the measure would provoke full-scale civil war between the Old Republic and the Confederacy. Such a war became increasingly inevitable, with the Dark Warrior Lords poised to lead both sides of the approaching conflict that would tear the galaxy asunder.
Fearful that such meetings would grant the CIS state legitimacy, the Old Republic Senate also declared it illegal under the Old Republic Senate non-communication law for Old Republic representatives to meet with Breakaway League in formal talks. By 22 BBY, the Dark Warrior had nearly completed preparations for open conflict between the Old Republic and the Confederacy. Nominally the Confederacy functioned as a democracy, and delegates from its myriad member worlds formed a Separatist Senate, though in truth it was ruled by the Dark Warrior. At the same time, the galaxy's major corporations pledged their support and resources to the Confederacy, and their leaders thereby earned seats on Dooku's Separatist Council. Its members included Chairman San Hill of the InterGalactic Banking Clan, Foreman Wat Tambor of the Techno Union, Magistrate Passel Argente of the Corporate Alliance, Presidente Shu Mai of the Commerce Guild, and Archduke Poggle the Lesser of the Insectoid hives, as well as Planet Speakers Po Nudo of Ando and Tikkes of Mon Cala.
Nute Gunray's condition for joining the Separatist Council was that Amidala be killed in revenge for her humiliating defeat of him at the Battle of Water Realm. Jango Clone and his associate, Zam Wesell, undertook the bounty that Gunray subsequently issued on Amidala. Just before the Senate's vote on the Military Creation Act, Wesell mounted an unsuccessful attempt on Amidala's life, resulting in the High Council designating Light Guardian Knight Ben Oldwise and his Student, Andy Stormwalker—both of whom had been instrumental in the Old Republic's victory at the Battle of Water Realm—as Amidala's personal bodyguards. Wesell's second attempt on Amidala's life similarly failed, and Fett used a Clone World saberdart to execute Wesell before Kenobi and Stormwalker could extract information from her. Nevertheless, Kenobi identified the saberdart's connection to Clone World, and was alarmed when his research revealed that the planet had been erased from the Light Guardian Archives. With the help of Three Eyesd Master Guru, he pinpointed Clone World's location above the galactic plane, just south of the Rishi Maze, and traveled there as part of his investigation into Amidala's assailant.
When Kenobi arrived at Clone World's capital of Tipoca City, Prime Minister Lama Su greeted him and revealed the existence of the clone army. By this time, 200,000 troopers were ready for deployment, with a million more soldiers nearing completion of their training. A shocked Kenobi reported his discovery to the High Council, which ordered him to detain Fett and bring him to the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet for questioning. Fett escaped from Tipoca City with his son, an unaltered clone whom he named Boba, and fled to the Confederate capital of Bug Planet. Kenobi tracked the Fetts and, after engaging in a starfighter dogfight that led them to believe him dead, followed them to the planetary surface. There, he discovered that the Insectoids were manufacturing millions of battle droids in their droid foundries. He also witnessed a meeting between Dooku and the Separatist Council, discovering that they were preparing to merge their resources into a Separatist Metal Helper Army. The Insectoids thereafter captured Kenobi, though not before he sent a message to Stormwalker.
Stormwalker was with Amidala on the nearby world of Desertia and relayed Kenobi's message to City Planet, where Palpatine and the High Council heard the news that the commerce guilds had joined the Confederacy. Against the Council's orders, Amidala and Stormwalker rushed to rescue Kenobi on Bug Planet. While Kenobi was in his custody, Dooku claimed that the entire Old Republic was under the sway of a Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior named Dark Space King, and tried to persuade Kenobi to help him destroy the Dark Warrior. Kenobi refused, and after Amidala and Stormwalker were similarly captured, the Insectoids sentenced all three of them to execution in the Petranaki Arena.
Despite Kenobi's report that the Confederacy was raising an army, Planet Speaker Bail Organa of Peace Star and other members of the Senate still believed that the Military Creation Act would not be passed in time to contend with the Breakaway League. Consequently, Junior Representative Jar Jar Binks of Water Realm motioned that the Senate grant emergency powers to Palpatine, who could then use his newfound authority to formally approve the creation of a Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic. Though Palpatine promised to relinquish his emergency powers once the crisis had passed, that was never to be the case. While Master Guru traveled to Clone World to marshal the clone troopers for the Three Eyesd Army, Master Mace Purple assembled an assault team of 212 Light Guardian, drawn from the Masters of the High Council and the Order's ranks of Knights and Students, to save Kenobi from imprisonment on Bug Planet. The galaxy teetered on the brink of civil war.
The war[]
Year one (22 BBY–21 BBY)[]
First Battle of Bug Planet[]
The Battle of Bug Planet commenced when Windu and his Light Guardian strike team infiltrated the Petranaki arena to save Amidala, Kenobi, and Stormwalker from gladiatorial combat with three beasts: an acklay, a nexu, and a reek. While the Insectoid spectators fled the arena, Dooku unleashed a massive infantry of B1 battle droids, B2 super battle droids, and droidekas against the Light Guardian. During the ensuing ground battle, Council member Coleman Brave came within seconds of ending the conflict when he nearly managed to kill Dooku, but Jango Clone gunned him down before he could do so. Windu thereafter beheaded Fett, an act that would earn him the ire of his son, Boba. Within a short span, only Amidala, Kenobi, Stormwalker, Windu, and a fraction of their Light Guardian allies were still standing. With his battle droids encircling the ring of survivors, Dooku demanded their unconditional surrender, but Windu refused to allow himself and his comrades to become hostages.
Just as Windu and the other survivors were about to be executed, Guru swept in with reinforcements, the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic: 192,000 clone troopers aboard Assault Ship-class transgalactic military assault ships, with Old Republic Dropship/i gunships ferrying them into the Petranaki arena to defend and extract the surviving Light Guardian. Amidala, Kenobi, Stormwalker, Windu, and the other surviving Light Guardian withdrew from the arena aboard Guru's gunships and rushed to Bug Planet's red sand plains, where a ground campaign was taking shape. Light Guardian such as Blue Warrior, Kit Smile, and many others immediately accepted command positions and led the clone troopers into battle against the Separatist Metal Helper Army, working to decimate the enemy infantry and prevent the Techno Union's Hardcell transports from escaping. While Guru proceeded to the Old Republic's forward command center, Windu oversaw an assembly area, where Clone Unit Leader Ponds handed him command of five special commando units. Colonel Meebur Gascon and other top strategists from Old Republic High Command advised the Three Eyesd Army on its battlefield tactics.
A frenetic offensive ensued, as the Old Republic's All Terrain Tactical Enforcers went head-to-head with the Breakaway League' IG-227 Hailfire-class droid tanks and OG-9 homing spider droids. Guru ordered the Three Eyesd Army's Self-Propelled Heavy Artillery Turbolaser walkers to ground a number of Merchant Guild core ships before they could escape. On the ground, the Light Guardian and their clone troopers were forced to contend with the enemy battle droids and DSD1 dwarf spider droids, but they made gradual headway against the Breakaway League. Overwhelmed by the Old Republic's assault, Dooku and the Separatist Council ordered a retreat. Poggle the Lesser entrusted Dooku with the Insectoids' plans to the Ultimate Weapon, and Dooku headed for a remote hangar where his Punworcca 116-class interstellar sloop was docked. En route to the hangar, Dooku crossed paths with Amidala, Kenobi, and Stormwalker and they gave chase aboard their Old Republic Dropship/i gunship. When Dooku's escort of Nantex-class territorial defense starfighters retaliated, Amidala was dislodged from the gunship, while Kenobi and Stormwalker pursued the Noble Title.
When Kenobi and Stormwalker reached the hangar, Dooku defeated them in a lightsaber duel, injuring Kenobi and severing Stormwalker's right forearm. The duel continued when Guru, Dooku's former Light Guardian Master, arrived and proved more than a challenge for the Dark Warrior Lord. Dooku was able to escape only by collapsing a pillar on top of Kenobi and Stormwalker, forcing Guru to choose between pressing his attack and saving his fellow Light Guardian. Amidala arrived at the hangar with another gunship, but she and her squad of clone troopers were unable to shoot down Dooku's solar sailer. Although Dooku and the Separatist Council had escaped with their forces, the Old Republic declared victory in the Battle of Bug Planet.
The beginning of the Nature Wars shifted the balance of the Force itself. Dooku secretly traveled to City Planet, where he met with Dark Space King and reported that the intergalactic conflict which they had worked to instigate was finally underway. Though Kenobi believed that the clone troopers had been instrumental to the Old Republic's victory on Bug Planet, Guru knew that it was not a victory: The Nature Wars had begun. From City Planet, the Old Republic deployed tens of thousands of clone troopers and a fleet of warships and assault craft, which formed the Old Republic Navy, as part of its war machine. The Confederacy, meanwhile, moved its capital from Bug Planet to the planet Raxus Secundus, which served as the headquarters of the Separatist Senate.
Conflict spreads[]
As the Nature Wars engulfed world after world across the galaxy incredibly quickly, Amidala's handmaiden Dormé suspected the Confederacy had its forces lying in wait on the impression the events on Bug Planet would end in a Separatist triumph, only for the Old Republic's own forces to be able to confront the CIS. Windu also suspected the Breakaway League were moving to establish a foothold in the Outer Rim and then move inwards to the Core, eventually having enough strength to strike at City Planet itself. As such, the Old Republic was forced to move forces into the Rim to prevent the Confederacy from completing a foothold that they could push in with. Furthermore, in practice, the Breakaway League knew that they would not have to win every battle; instead, they understood victory could be achieved by making the conflict too costly—in both financial and personnel terms—for the Old Republic to continue it.
The Light Guardian were forced to relinquish their traditional roles as peacekeepers in favor of military commands within the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic. Knights and Masters accepted the new rank of Light Guardian Army Leader. Even Students contributed to the Old Republic's war effort, serving as Light Guardian Unit Leaders on the battlefield at the suggestion of Palpatine. Among the newly promoted Light Guardian Army Leaders was Andy Stormwalker, whom the Light Guardian High Council elevated to Knighthood. Unbeknownst to his colleagues, Stormwalker had secretly married Pamela Planet Ruler following the Battle of Bug Planet, a relationship that would have repercussions for the entire war.
Amidala and Stormwalker were also involved in a mission to Nooroyo between the Battle of Bug Planet and their wedding, during which they escaped Gunray's forces when the Viceroy arrived for in person negotiations over Nooroyo's spice export. To satisfy the Old Republic's increased demand for troops, Clone World continued its production and training of clone troopers. In turn, the Old Republic Navy blockaded Clone World, and the Three Eyesd Army established a network of listening posts to monitor Separatist activity in the vicinity. Due to the death of Jango Clone, the Clone Worldan scientists stretched the preexisting samples of his DNA in order to decant more clones. The Light Guardian High Council selected one of its members, Master Shaak Guardian, to oversee the training of clone cadets in Clone World's Tipoca City, assisted by contracted mercenaries such as Bric and El-Les to help supervise the clones' combat instruction. The clones quickly started to show signs of individuality, which only improved their effectiveness.
The Old Republic attracted both internal and external criticism for its use of clone troopers, whom some viewed as slaves to the Light Guardian. One trooper deserted from the Three Eyesd Army after the Confederacy annihilated his unit; he fled to the planet Twin Sun, where he took the name Cut Lawquane with a family. On the other hand, the Separatist citizenry took pride in the fact that officers in the Confederacy military were willing participants, while its armed forces mainly sacrificed expendable battle droids for their cause. At the same time, the Confederate populace was insulated from reports of war crimes that were committed in its name. The primary cause of the carnage was Army Leader Steel, a cyborg warlord from Kalee who oversaw the Metal Helper Army.
In addition to Grievous, Dooku recruited another agent as his lieutenant and emissary: Assassin Night, a slave-turned-Light Guardian from Dathomir who fell to the dark side of the Force and became Dooku's apprentice. Though Grievous and Ventress developed a long-standing rivalry, both were motivated by a deep-seated hatred for the Light Guardian Order. Grievous and Ventress made a habit of claiming as trophies the lightsabers of their fallen Light Guardian victims, and Dooku collected the pilfered weapons in his palace on Serenno. Ventress acquired one such lightsaber from Light Guardian Master Tholme, whom she bested in combat during a major campaign. She elected to slay Tholme rather than accept his surrender.
The outbreak of the Nature Wars shifted the balance of power on numerous worlds. Since the Separatist Crisis, a schism had fractured the Gotal population of Antar 4, with the Confederacy backing terrorist groups to combat the moon's Old Republic loyalists. The loyalists remained in power until shortly after the Battle of Bug Planet, when the Confederacy conquered Antar 4, and the moon briefly served as a headquarters for Dooku. While millions of Gotal refugees fled to their colony world of Atzerri, an influx of Koorivar, Gossams, and other Confederate-allied species immigrated to Antar 4. The resulting political crisis on the moon gave rise to one of the Old Republic's first resistance cells. Gotal and Koorivar loyalists executed numerous acts of sabotage against the Separatist regime, with the Old Republic covertly sponsoring their guerrilla campaign. Despite their efforts, the Confederacy retained control of Antar 4 throughout the war.
Early in the Nature Wars, the Confederacy seized the Outer Rim world of Lola Sayu, the site of the infamous Old Republic prison known as the Citadel. The Citadel had been constructed five centuries earlier to hold Light Guardian who turned against the Old Republic. The Breakaway League converted the facility into a prisoner-of-war camp, using it to house Old Republic captives. The Breakaway League also invaded Millius Prime, one of the thousand moons of the remote planet Iego, and drove away its inhabitants, the peaceful Angels. The Breakaway League established military sites on both Iego and Millius Prime, but later withdrew from the system. Before departing, they seeded Iego's asteroid field with a security grid of laser emitters that trapped its residents on the surface.
Various battles[]
With the war spread across the galaxy, many planets and parts of space were left to become battlegrounds, creating numerous fronts. With the conflict's nature as a galaxy-wide war, many such fronts could all be active at the same time. Over the course of the Nature Wars, planets swept up in the conflict included Akiva, where a Confederate droid factory turned the planet into a battlefield between the Light Guardian and the Breakaway League; and Sedratis, which hosted the Battle of Sedratis. During the latter campaign, Light Guardian ace pilots Stormwalker and Huulik proved instrumental in securing a Old Republic victory over the Confederacy's droid starfighter forces. During the war, a number of manufacturers converted freighters and transports into combat vessels. New vehicles loaded with weapons were also made. During the conflict, because repair facilities were often heavily damaged during battles, Nomad starships would arrive in star systems after the fleets had departed and the fighting was over. The Nomads would help the local population with repairs to compensate for the damaged facilities. The Hairy Friends fought for the Old Republic in several systems.
At one point, a battle was fought in the Crombach Nebula, during which Light Guardian Master Wom-Nii Gnaden's NTB-630 naval bomber collided with a Munificent-class star frigate. One Confederate officer, the husband of Separatist Planet Speaker Mina Bonteri, was slain while defending a new base on the planet Aargonar from Old Republic forces. During a space battle at one point, clone pilot Sicko piloted a Old Republic Dropship/i gunship towards a force of vulture droid starfighters, allowing the gunship's crew to take out many of the droids. Under the command of Army Leader Darrus Jeht, the Maelstrom-class battle cruiser named the Maelstrom served with distinction at the Battle of Kromus and later the Battle of Cularin. The Humbarine sector saw heavy fighting during the war, with its capital planet Humbarine suffering a Separatist bombardment that completely seared the world's surface.
Diversion at Crystal City[]
In the immediate aftermath of the Battle of Bug Planet, Grievous and the Separatist Metal Helper Army wrested control of the galaxy's major hyperspace lanes, isolating the Old Republic from the bulk of its Three Eyesd Army. Encircled by the Confederacy and with their forces spread thin, the Light Guardian Army Leaders were unable to gain traction in the Outer Rim Territories, especially as worlds continued to flock to the Confederacy. As the next phase of the Nature Wars began, the Giant Slug Clan—which controlled Giant Slug Space with its network of supply routes reaching to the Outer Rim—became a coveted ally for both the Old Republic and the Confederacy.
In a bid to secure the Giant Slugs' supply routes for the Breakaway League, Dooku hatched a plot to kidnap Rotta, the son of Giant Slug crime lord Jabba Desilijic Tiure, and frame the Light Guardian Order for the crime. Dooku collaborated with Jabba's uncle Ziro, who hoped to depose his nephew as leader of the Giant Slug Clan. The first stage of Dooku's plan required that the Light Guardian's attention be diverted elsewhere; to that end, Dooku ordered his forces to conquer Crystal City, a crystalline Outer Rim world valued for its location and resources, and also the site of a Old Republic relief effort overseen by Planet Speaker Bail Organa. The Confederate Sea Leader Trench blockaded Crystal City with a massive detachment from the Confederacy navy, while Separatist ground forces subjugated the planet's inhabitants. After a number of native Christophsians mounted a futile defense of their homeworld, they requested aid from the Light Guardian High Council.
Light Guardian Army Leaders Ben Oldwise and Andy Stormwalker, alongside Sea Leader Wullf Yularen, were dispatched with a task force to rescue Organa and the besieged Christophsians. Although their fleet of Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominators was unable to penetrate Trench's immense blockade of warships, Stormwalker and Yularen used an experimental stealth ship to outmaneuver Trench and obliterate his flagship, the Invincible (although Trench narrowly survived his dreadnought's vaporization and later returned to active duty). Having broken through the blockade, Stormwalker and Yularen delivered the much-needed relief supplies to Organa's refugee camp on the surface, while Kenobi exploited the hole in the Confederate armada to overwhelm the opposing fleet long enough to land a Old Republic invasion force on the planet. The Breakaway League likewise fortified their ground troops with reinforcements, concealing their true numbers from the Old Republic.
By this time, Dooku had dispatched Assassin Night to Crystal City to further hamper the Old Republic's progress. As Kenobi and Stormwalker planned to ambush the battle droid forces in a major city plaza, a spy within the Old Republic ranks, Clone Sergeant Slick, apprised the Breakaway League of the Light Guardian's attack plan. Slick's actions transformed a potential Old Republic victory into a retreat, and Kenobi and Stormwalker withdrew their men to the Old Republic's base. Suspecting the existence of an informant, Kenobi and Stormwalker departed to gather information behind enemy lines, while Clone Unit Leader Cody and Clone Ship Leader Rex personally launched an investigation into the source of the intelligence leak. After they exposed Slick as the spy, he bombed the Old Republic's weapons depot, leading Rex and Cody to mobilize a swift manhunt. They arrested Slick and sent him to lock-up, though the damage was already done. Most of the Old Republic's arsenal was reduced to wreckage, with only a quartet of AV-7 Anti-vehicle Artillery Cannons surviving his sabotage.
At the Confederate headquarters, Kenobi and Stormwalker encountered Ventress and engaged her in a lightsaber duel, which she used to buy time for Slick's sabotage. Both Light Guardian halted their attack once they witnessed the sheer size of the Breakaway League' landing force. After Kenobi and Stormwalker escaped back to their base, Army Leader Whorm Loathsom assumed command of the droid infantry and commenced an assault on the city, while Ventress left to execute the next phase of Dooku's plan: kidnapping Rotta the Giant Sluglet. She traveled to Desertia aboard her personal starship, the Trident, and spirited Rotta away from his homeworld.
In addition to Slick's sabotage of their weapons depot, the Old Republic forces lost their naval support when the Breakaway League' orbital defenses ousted Yularen and his fleet from the Christoph system. Though they were severely outnumbered, Kenobi, Stormwalker, and their clone soldiers managed to repel Loathsom's infantry from the city. Octuptarra tri-droids lent their support to the Breakaway League' second wave, but the AV-7 Anti-vehicle Cannons halted the advance of Loathsom's rearguard of Armored Assault Tanks. Meanwhile, believing that renegades had kidnapped Rotta, Jabba contacted Sheev Palpatine to request the Old Republic's assistance in rescuing his son. Since Kenobi and Stormwalker were the only Light Guardian available for such a task, Guru dispatched a messenger to Crystal City to recall the two Light Guardian Army Leaders from the battlefront. The messenger was Stormwalker's new Student learner, Ashoka Friend.
Yularen briefly returned to Crystal City aboard his flagship, the Resolute, to send Tano to the planetary surface aboard a shuttle, then withdrew to rendezvous with reinforcements from the Old Republic Navy. Tano reached Kenobi and Stormwalker just as they were preparing defenses for the next droid attack. Due to the continued lack of support from the Old Republic Navy, Kenobi and Stormwalker remained trapped on-world with their troops, unable to comply with Guru's order to return to City Planet. Loathsom mounted another strike on the Old Republic forces, this time utilizing a mobile deflector shield to maintain a perimeter just beyond his advancing droid troops. The shield rendered the AV-7 Anti-vehicle Cannons useless, forcing the Light Guardian and clones to devise another strategy.
While Kenobi and Rex scrambled their men in a last-ditch defense of the city, and Kenobi feigned surrender to buy time for Stormwalker and Tano to infiltrate the Separatist lines and destroy the shield generator, exposing droids to renewed barrages from the AV-7 Anti-Vehicle Cannons, and forcing Loathsom to capitulate. The Old Republic victory coincided with the arrival of naval reinforcements led by Yularen and Guru, who smashed the Separatist blockade and drove it into retreat. Even as Yularen's fleet deployed infantry reinforcements to aid the invasion force in securing Crystal City, much of the planet remained in ruins. The Old Republic, meanwhile, imprisoned Loathsom on City Planet for treason.
Alliance with the Giant Slug Clan[]
Clash at Teth[]
All while a number of new battles rocked the Outer Rim, Ventress brought the captive Rotta to an abandoned B'omarr Order Monastery on the jungle planet Teth, located in Wild Space, and fortified the site with two full battalions of battle droids. After a scouting team of Old Republic Advanced Recon Force Scout Troopers tracked Rotta to Teth, Stormwalker and Tano proceeded there with Ship Leader Rex and Torrent Company, Rex's command unit within the Three Eyesd Army's famed 501st Legion, to rescue the Giant Sluglet. Kenobi, meanwhile, entered into negotiations with Jabba, who granted the Old Republic a single planetary rotation to save Rotta and return him safely to Desertia.
As the monastery sat perched atop a cliff, Stormwalker, Tano, and Torrent Company were forced to mount a vertical assault, relying on ascension cables and a pair of AT-TE walkers to reach the fortress at the summit. Though they lost one of their AT-TE walkers and endured numerous casualties, the Light Guardian and clones broke through the Separatist droid defenses and retrieved Rotta from the monastery's detention level. However, Tano discovered that Rotta was severely ill, jeopardizing their chances of delivering him to Desertia alive. Stormwalker suspected Dooku's involvement in the kidnapping, given that both the Old Republic and the Confederacy sought an alliance with the Giant Slug Clan.
Unbeknownst to the Light Guardian, Ventress used the protocol droid 4-A7 to record Stormwalker and Tano as they retrieved Rotta. Ventress transmitted the holorecording to Dooku, who presented it to Jabba as evidence that the Light Guardian were responsible for Rotta's abduction. After persuading Jabba to consider joining the Confederacy, Dooku ordered Ventress to recover Rotta so that they could claim credit for his rescue. Marshaling her assault force of battle droids, Ventress mounted a counter-strike on the monastery, swiftly crushing the Old Republic's last AT-TE walker and remaining assault craft. With no means of escape, Rex, Stormwalker, and Tano barricaded themselves inside the monastery's antechamber with Rotta and Torrent Company. While Rex remained behind with Torrent Company to hold off Ventress and her droid infantry, Stormwalker and Tano departed with Rotta to find a secondary exit from the monastery.
Despite their best efforts, Rex and his men were vastly outnumbered, and the battle droids slew all of them save for Rex and five other troopers. The droids held the clone survivors prisoner in the compound's eastern courtyard. Nonetheless, it was not long before Kenobi arrived at Teth with Unit Leader Cody and a detachment of reinforcements. After punching through the Breakaway League' aerial squadrons of vulture droid starfighters, Cody and his soldiers reached the monastery aboard Old Republic Dropship/i gunships. They and Kenobi provided support for Rex and the survivors of Torrent Company, while Stormwalker and Tano narrowly evaded Ventress and escaped with Rotta on board an old spice freighter called the Twilight.
When Kenobi entered the monastery in search of Stormwalker, he instead crossed lightsabers with Ventress. Upon learning that Stormwalker had escaped with Rotta, Ventress broke off from her duel with Kenobi and fled the battlefield. Meanwhile, Stormwalker and Tano piloted the Twilight into orbit of Teth, where Wullf Yularen and his Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominator were battling a Confederate armada of Munificent-class star frigates. As the Light Guardian tried to board Yularen's Space Dominator, a trio of vulture droids firebombed the cruiser's main hangar. Unable to dock with Yularen's flagship, Stormwalker and Tano headed directly to Desertia aboard the Twilight.
Cementing an alliance[]
Dooku was not pleased to learn from Ventress that the Light Guardian had extracted Rotta from Teth, but he continued to manipulate Jabba and the Giant Slug Clan towards joining the Confederacy. During a holographic report to Dooku, Ventress falsely stated that Stormwalker had murdered Rotta before leaving for Desertia. Using this deception, Dooku convinced Jabba that the Light Guardian Order intended to eradicate the Giant Slug Clan. Dooku thus departed from Jabba's Palace to personally kill Rotta, which would ensure he was never reunited with his father. All the while, Palpatine used the sudden eruption of the Battle of Teth, along with the several other concurrent engagements in the Rim, to justify a series of new security measures on Water Realm.
On City Planet, Pamela Planet Ruler—having wanted to meet with Palpatine to discuss Water Realm's new security measures—received word of the Light Guardian's ongoing efforts to return Rotta to Desertia. Concerned for her husband's safety after learning Jabba blamed him for the kidnapping, she became determined to convince Jabba of the truth and broker the Old Republic's treaty with the Giant Slug Clan. Because Jabba was refusing all communication with the Old Republic, Amidala visited Ziro the Giant Slug, who lived in a palace on City Planet. After Ziro rebuffed her attempt to reopen dialogue between the Giant Slugs and the Old Republic, Amidala lingered around the palace and witnessed Ziro contact Dooku via hologram. Dooku informed Ziro that thanks to the Dark Warrior's web of deceit, Jabba would kill the Light Guardian when they arrived at his palace on Desertia, after which the Old Republic would be forced to arrest Jabba. Accordingly, Ziro would be able to seize his nephew's control of the Giant Slug Clan. However, Ziro discovered Amidala eavesdropping on the conversation, and on Dooku's advice, he incarcerated Amidala within his palace.
As Stormwalker and Tano arrived over Desertia with Rotta aboard the Twilight, a pair of Confederate Rogue-class Porax-38 starfighters assaulted their freighter, causing them to crash-land in the Dune Sea. While Stormwalker diverted Dooku's attention by engaging him in a lightsaber duel, Tano proceeded with Rotta to Jabba's Palace, but a trio of IG-100 MagnaGuards intercepted her outside the compound. Stormwalker abandoned his confrontation with Dooku to rescue Tano, but he incorrectly assumed that she was already at Jabba's Palace. Stormwalker thus arrived there ahead of his Student—much to the ire of Jabba, who still believed that Stormwalker had slaughtered his son. With help from Stormwalker's astromech droid Beep-Boop, Tano defeated her MagnaGuard assailants and reunited Rotta with his father. In spite of the Light Guardian's efforts, Jabba remained determined to execute Stormwalker and Tano, and he ordered his bounty hunters to do so.
Back on City Planet, Amidala was able to send word of her capture to the Old Republic via her protocol droid, Gold Talker. Clone Unit Leader Fox immediately responded with a squad of clone shock troopers from the City Planet Guard, and they raided Ziro's Palace to rescue her. Once Fox and his soldiers had arrested Ziro, Amidala used Ziro's personal holoprojector to contact Jabba, who received her message just as he was about to have Stormwalker and Tano killed. Jabba was incensed to learn of Dooku and Ziro's conspiracy to unseat him, but he agreed to end all hostilities with the Light Guardian. Jabba subsequently signed a treaty with the Old Republic and granted the Three Eyesd Army its exclusive, long-awaited access to Giant Slug Space's supply routes. At the same time, Kenobi finished securing the Old Republic's victory on Teth and headed to Desertia with Guru, so that they could formalize the treaty with Jabba.
The Old Republic's alliance with the Giant Slug Clan resulted in a major setback for the Confederacy. Yet, Dark Space King remained unconcerned, downplaying the impact of the Light Guardian's victory after Dooku apprised him of the news. Nonetheless, the treaty also posed problems for the Old Republic, as making formal treaties with the Giant Slugs ended up legitimizing their businesses, which the treaty also allowed to spread into the Mid Rim. Beyond the cartel lawyers masterfully editing the proposed treaties to give the Giant Slugs unmitigated access to Old Republic intel, the treaty also saw the Giant Slugs confirm that their organizations would stay out of the war and only work as non-combatants, while the Old Republic was forced to promise it would not bring the fighting into Giant Slug territory despite having secured their cooperation and hyperlanes. The Old Republic incarcerated Ziro within the Judiciary Central Detention Center on City Planet, and his lengthy sentence caused him to develop a deep resentment toward Amidala.
The war reaches Twilight Planet[]
The Twin-Tail homeworld of Twilight Planet became the next major battlefront of the Nature Wars when the Techno Union invaded the planet, aiming to pillage its wealth and resources. The Separatist navy installed a blockade of battleships in orbit of Twilight Planet, while the Separatist Metal Helper Army subjected the civilian population to a brutal occupation. Besides losing a number of cities and transport hubs, the Twin-Tails were cut off from food and relief supplies and thus began to starve. In response, political activist Cham Syndulla founded a Twin-Tail New Rebels to combat the Confederate occupation. Light Guardian Army Leader Ima-Gun Di, Clone Ship Leader Keeli, and their unit of soldiers provided aid to Syndulla and his freedom fighters. As open warfare engulfed Twilight Planet, the Separatist blockade eliminated Sea Leader Dao's Old Republic fleet, severing the Old Republic's supply lines to Twilight Planet and trapping Di, Syndulla, and their men in a canyon alongside many Twin-Tail families.
With Twilight Planet in dire need of aid, the Light Guardian High Council prepared a shipment of food and medical supplies for the Twin-Tails. Yet, because the Old Republic's Pelta-class frigates did not have enough range to reach Twilight Planet, the High Council selected the planet Toydaria as a suitable staging ground for the blockade runners. Complicating matters was the fact that Toydaria had declared neutrality in the war. As a result, the High Council asked Planet Speaker Bail Organa to oversee negotiations on Toydaria, alongside Jar Jar Binks. However, the Separatist navy intercepted the transmission between Organa and the High Council. Dooku thus dispatched Planet Speaker Lott Dod of the Merchant Guild to thwart Organa's diplomatic efforts with King Katuunko, the monarch of the Toydarians.
Thanks to Dod's intervention, Katuunko publicly declined to have Toydaria sponsor the Old Republic's humanitarian shipment to Twilight Planet. However, Katuunko privately agreed to let Organa transfer his supplies from Toydaria to Twilight Planet. To prevent the Merchant Guild from learning of the subterfuge, Binks distracted Dod and his staff at a formal banquet that night, while Organa oversaw the shipment's departure from Toydaria. By that time, the Separatist Metal Helper Army had nearly overrun the Old Republic's defenses on Twilight Planet. Di, Keeli, and their men sacrificed their lives so that Syndulla and his comrades could escape from the canyon with their families. Shortly thereafter, the Old Republic's trio of Pelta-class frigates penetrated the Confederate blockade and deployed their relief supplies to the Twin-Tails. Nevertheless, the Three Eyesd Army's inability to provide further military support to the Twin-Tail New Rebels eroded Syndulla's faith in the Old Republic.
Without reinforcements from the Old Republic, only Syndulla and his Twin-Tail New Rebels stood against the Separatist occupation of Twilight Planet. The Twin-Tails suffered heavily in a confrontation with the Metal Helper Army, and the Breakaway League forced the freedom fighters to surrender and disarm themselves. Still, the droid infantry continued to massacre the Twin-Tail fighters, leading them to carve out hideouts in the shells of downed Confederate C-9979 landing craft. Syndulla and his rebels resorted to executing a guerrilla campaign, periodically eliminating battle droid patrols in the region. For the time being, the Twin-Tails were left to wage the ongoing Battle of Twilight Planet on their own.
Organa and Binks's determination to help the Twin-Tails of Twilight Planet convinced Katuunko to consider bringing Toydaria into the Old Republic. Since the Light Guardian Order hoped to establish a supply base in the Toydaria system, Master Guru sought a meeting with Katuunko on the coral moon of Rugosa. However, Dooku learned of the rendezvous and sent Assassin Night to negotiate with the Toydarian Royal Delegation on behalf of the Confederacy. After a pair of Confederate Munificent-class star frigates intercepted his Old Republic frigate, Guru reached the surface of Rugosa in an escape pod alongside his three-man detail from the City Planet Guard: Lieutenant Thire and troopers Jek and Rys.
To circumvent a political debate with Guru, Ventress proposed a contest. She would send her best troops to capture Guru, who would face the challenge of evading apprehension. Katuunko, accordingly, would consider aligning Toydaria with the side of the victor. Although Katuunko was loath to subject Guru to such a trial, Guru accepted Ventress's terms and promised to arrive at their location by nightfall. Though they gravely lacked an advantage in numbers, Guru and his troopers prevailed over Ventress's battalion of battle droids, even after she reneged on her agreement with Katuunko—first by ordering her droids to shoot to kill, and later by deploying droidekas as reinforcements.
When Katuunko informed Dooku of his desire to join the Old Republic, Dooku commanded his apprentice to assassinate Katuunko. Guru and his men arrived just in time to save Katuunko, with Guru using the Force to halt Ventress's lightsabers in mid-air, just centimeters from Katuunko's throat. Instead of surrendering, Ventress distracted Guru by detonating pre-planted explosives near Katuunko's starship, the Thief's Eye. While Guru's focus was consumed with telekinetically redirecting the incoming rubble, Ventress took the opportunity to escape aboard her solar sailer. In the wake of Guru's victory, Katuunko formally pledged Toydaria's support to the Old Republic and agreed to host a base in his system. He and his delegation thereafter departed from Rugosa alongside Guru and his soldiers.
Rise of the Malevolence[]
The Confederacy military wasted no time in developing new projects for its war machine. One result was the Malevolence, a colossal Subjugator-class heavy cruiser that became the prized flagship of Army Leader Steel. The Malevolence's maiden voyage cut a swath through Old Republic territory, striking in several star systems and annihilating all of the Old Republic ships that it encountered. Key to the battleship's success were its dual ion cannons, which disabled enemy starships' deflector shields and the rest of their onboard systems, thereby leaving the targets vulnerable to heavy turbolaser fire. Because the Malevolence left behind no witnesses, the Old Republic citizenry dubbed the unidentified threat Grievous's "mystery weapon," sowing fear throughout the Old Republic.
The Light Guardian High Council soon sent one of its members, Army Leader Plo Mask, to hunt down Grievous's weapon. Koon and his flotilla of three Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominators tracked the Malevolence to the Abregado system, where Dooku and Grievous were overseeing the heavy cruiser's testing. The result of the ensuing battle was identical to those of its predecessors: the Malevolence disabled Koon's cruisers with an ion wave, then tore apart the defenseless craft using its array of turbolasers. Most of the remaining personnel who fled aboard escape pods were killed when Grievous sent teams of B1-series rocket battle droids aboard Droch-class boarding ships after them.
Both High Leader Palpatine and the Light Guardian Council were reluctant to spare resources on a search for survivors of Koon's fleet. However, Andy Stormwalker and Ashoka Friend—whose fleet was stationed in the nearby Bith system—took it upon themselves to do so. When they reached the Abregado system aboard the Twilight, the only remaining survivors were Koon and Clone Unit Leader Wolffe, along with Clone Sergeant Sinker and trooper Boost of the 104th Battalion's Wolfpack squad. Stormwalker and Tano rescued Koon and the clones, and they escaped from the system aboard the Twilight, narrowly avoiding becoming the Malevolence's next victims. Dooku was greatly displeased by Grievous's failure to prevent their escape.
With the veil over Grievous's mystery weapon lifted, the Senate commissioned Stormwalker and the Old Republic Navy's Shadow Squadron of Fork Fighter starfighter pilots to eradicate the Malevolence. After the Malevolence attacked a Old Republic medical convoy in the Ryndellia system, Stormwalker correctly deduced that Grievous's next target was the Kaliida Shoals Medical Center, a classified Outer Rim facility that was treating over 60,000 wounded clone troopers. Using a smugglers' shortcut known as the Balmorra Run, Stormwalker, Tano, Koon, and Shadow Squadron barely beat the Malevolence to the Old Republic medcenter, which sat on the fringes of the Kaliida Nebula. While Shadow Squadron initiated its assault on the Malevolence, Doctor Nala Se and the rest of her staff began evacuating the medcenter with the help of the Water Realm. Yet, they were unable to clear out all of the patients before the Malevolence completed its targeting cycle.
Shadow Squadron's initial attack on the Malevolence claimed the lives of almost half of the unit's twelve-pilot roster. On account of those casualties, Stormwalker heeded Tano and Koon's recommendation to abandon their original target of the Malevolence's bridge. Instead, they concentrated their assault on the heavy cruiser's starboard ion cannon. Their proton torpedoes inflicted enough damage to cause the ion cannon to overload when Grievous tried to fire it upon the medcenter. Ben Oldwise and Wullf Yularen thereafter arrived with a three-cruiser fleet of Space Dominators, and promptly opened fire on the Malevolence. With both the ion cannons and the hyperdrive disabled, Grievous was forced to order the Malevolence to retreat, setting course for Confederate space.
The Breakaway League dispatched a fleet of reinforcements to aid the beleaguered Malevolence, but Light Guardian Army Leader Green Teacher and her own fleet intercepted them before they could reach the Kaliida Nebula. Even without those reinforcements, the Malevolence was able to hold its own, since its enormous size enabled it to withstand the Old Republic fleet's barrage of cannonades. Nevertheless, Dooku and Dark Space King arranged a trap for Pamela Planet Ruler, sending her to the Kaliida Nebula under the premise of negotiating a treaty between the Old Republic and the InterGalactic Banking Clan. When Amidala arrived, Grievous pulled her H-type Nubian yacht aboard the Malevolence via a tractor beam, aiming to take the esteemed senator hostage so as to secure safe passage for the Malevolence. The tactic worked as Dooku had predicted, with Stormwalker ordering the Old Republic fleet's gunnery teams to stand down in order to protect his wife.
While Koon, Tano, and Yularen remained behind to command the fleet, Stormwalker and Kenobi mounted a rescue mission to save Amidala. After using the Twilight to dock with the Malevolence, they rendezvoused with Amidala, who had destroyed her H-type Nubian yacht to delay Grievous. Amidala and Stormwalker proceeded to the bridge, where they hot-wired the Malevolence's navigation computer to secretly input a new destination. Kenobi attempted to sabotage the battleship's hyperdrive, but Grievous intercepted him and chased him to the ship's internal rail jet, where Kenobi broke off from their duel. He, Amidala, and Stormwalker escaped from the Malevolence aboard the Twilight, but Grievous pursued with a squadron of vulture droids.
It was not long before Stormwalker's sabotage came to light. Instead of jumping to hyperspace, the Malevolence collided with a nearby moon. Disgraced, Grievous fled from the battlefield aboard his personal starship, Soulless One. Thanks to that turn of events, the Old Republic claimed victory in the Battle of the Kaliida Nebula, ending the threat of the Malevolence. A few months later, Unduli would come face-to-face with Grievous on Nadiem out in the Outer Rim. In the mean time, however, Grievous would largely manage to stay out of the Old Republic's sight, being spotted in the Balmorra system but then remaining off the Old Republic's radar for weeks.
War for resources[]
As the conflict ground on, it became apparent the Nature Wars was also a war for resources, given the economic toll using clone troopers and battle droids was. As such, economically important worlds became home to multiple battles. The planet of Ukio had left the Old Republic during the Separatist Crisis, but it was ultimately taken back by the Old Republic at some point; due to its usefulness as a granary, Ukio was of interest to both sides. The farmer Fond Dachris had hope that the Three Eyesd Army would claim Ukio shortly after its victory on his own argiworld, Noomis Riga, where clone troopers surrounded attacking battle droids during a Separatist incursion. Noomis Riga suffered several such incursions during the war, with Dachris' fellow farmer Sim Aloo taking advantage of the carnage by making himself a notable ally of the Old Republic military. He reported the Old Republic-loyal Dachris as a Separatist sympathizer and murdered him as part of his plan to claim his neighbor's farm and expand his power.
Atraken and Khorm were also sought by the Old Republic and CIS, as they both were home to natural mineral resources. The Battle of Khorm was fought at some point after the Battle of Abregado. Army Leader Stormwalker and Clone Unit Leader Wolffe led the Old Republic in the battle, while Assassin Night was present for the Breakaway League. During a close encounter between the two, Wolffe lost his right eye to Ventress, which forced him to wear a cybernetic replacement. Atraken, meanwhile, would eventually suffer an brutal attack as the war dragged on. The battle technically ended as a Old Republic victory, but millions were killed in the fighting, and the whole world was left uninhabitable.
Battle over Rishi Station[]
Concurrent to a period of escalation for the conflict in the Outer Rim, which forced the Old Republic to rush out new formations of clones before their training was truly complete and assign them out-of-the-way tracking station jobs, the intelligence-gathering arms of the Old Republic and Confederate war machines became sources of contention over the following weeks. When Grievous targeted Clone World, he knew that the Three Eyesd Army's system of listening posts in the vicinity could impede his efforts. To that end, Grievous dispatched a stealth team of BX-series droid commandos to silence Rishi Station, a Old Republic outpost located on a barren moon in the Rishi system. Under the cover of a meteor shower, the droid commandos landed on the moon and raided Rishi Station, killing most of the facility's garrison. Sergeant O'Niner, the station's lead officer, was among the casualties. The droids then hot-wired the station's all-clear signal, preventing the Old Republic Navy from learning that Grievous and his fleet were approaching Clone World by way of the Rishi system. In addition, Assassin Night infiltrated Clone World's defenses and served as a spy for Grievous, completing the preparations for his invasion. All of this occurred while the Mud Jumpers of the Old Republic's 224th were involved in a separate campaign on the planet Mud Planet.
In the aftermath of the Breakaway League' takeover of Rishi Station, Unit Leader Cody and Ship Leader Rex arrived there on a scheduled inspection of the base and were warned of the danger by a flare used by the remaining Clones. After the droid commandos destroyed their shuttle, the Obex, Cody and Rex fled from the outpost. They soon encountered the remaining survivors of the earlier attack: troopers Echo, Hevy, and Fives. Though the rookie soldiers had barely seen any combat action, Cody and Rex rallied them to retake Rishi Station, and they managed to overpower the squad of droid commandos. Yet, their victory was short-lived. Upon losing contact with the droid commandos, Grievous deployed troop reinforcements to ensure that Rishi Station remained under his control.
With time running out, Rex decided that instead of trying to disable the all-clear signal, they should destroy Rishi Station. Though Rex's plan was the nuclear option, the cessation of the beacon would alert the Old Republic fleet to Grievous's invasion. To destroy Rishi Station, Echo suggested the idea of using the outpost's supply of liquid tibanna, a highly explosive fuel that served as a heat source during the moon's long winter. While Cody, Fives, and Hevy defended the station's main entrance from the incoming battle droids, Rex and Echo linked a trio of PLNK-series power droids, which contained the liquid tibanna, to a detonation system. When Rex encountered problems with the detonator's handset, Hevy remained behind to repair it, while his comrades escaped to the crags beneath the station. However, Hevy was unable to repair the remote, so he chose to manually activate the explosives.
Thanks to Hevy's sacrifice, the destruction of Rishi Station disabled the alert beacon. Andy Stormwalker, Ben Oldwise, and Wullf Yularen subsequently arrived in the Rishi system with a Old Republic fleet. Knowing his armada lacked the tactical advantage, Grievous conceded defeat and withdrew his forces from the system. After the battle, Kenobi and Stormwalker honored Echo and Fives for their efforts, as well as the late Hevy for his sacrifice. Furthermore, Rex inducted Echo and Fives into the 501st Legion.
Intelligence and counterintelligence[]
Eventually, the Breakaway League constructed Skytop Station, a core ship that they converted into a listening post in the Ruusan system. Skytop Station plagued the Old Republic's intelligence network by intercepting various transmissions and acquiring vital data for the Confederacy military. In the midst of this subterfuge, Grievous achieved a series of victories that jeopardized the Old Republic's foothold in the Outer Rim. He eliminated an entire Old Republic battle group at the planet Falleen on his way to conquer Bothawui, a strategic world in the Mid Rim. Rex, Stormwalker, and Ashoka Friend thereafter mobilized a Old Republic task force in defense of Bothawui.
During the ensuing Battle of Bothawui, Rex outflanked Grievous's flotilla using a squad of AT-TE walkers that he had hidden within Bothawui's asteroid field. Stormwalker and Gold Squadron, a unit of V-19 Torrent starfighters, quickly pressed their advantage and crippled Grievous's frigates, turning the tide of battle in the Old Republic's favor. However, when Stormwalker attempted to prevent Grievous from escaping aboard Soulless One, Stormwalker instead lost his personal astromech droid, Beep-Boop, after debris hit his Delta-7B interceptor. In spite of Grievous's escape, the Old Republic forces nonetheless emerged victorious at Bothawui.
The loss of Beep-Boop had potentially catastrophic consequences for the Old Republic. Since Stormwalker had never wiped Beep-Boop's memory, the droid contained a trove of classified Old Republic Military data. Unbeknownst to the Old Republic, the scavenger Gha Nachkt found Beep-Boop and promised the droid to Grievous. When Stormwalker and Tano searched Nachkt's freighter, the Vulture's Claw, they failed to find Beep-Boop amidst Nachkt's wares. Adding to Stormwalker's problems was the fact that his replacement astromech, R3-S6, was a spy droid for Grievous.
Once the Old Republic's intelligence confirmed the existence of the Confederacy's new listening post, Stormwalker received orders from Kenobi to find and eliminate the base. While his fleet scoured a targeted region of space, Stormwalker elected to undertake a solo scouting mission to sweep the area's outer corridor. Yet, once Stormwalker and R3-S6 were alone in the former's Delta-7B interceptor, R3-S6 activated the starfighter's homing beacon, leading Grievous and a pair of warships directly to their location. It was only due to the timely intervention of Rex and Tano, who hurriedly assembled a squad of soldiers and arrived aboard the Twilight, that Stormwalker narrowly escaped demise at Grievous's hands.
As Nachkt brought Beep-Boop to Skytop Station, the Twilight intercepted a transmission from the missing droid. Rex tracked the signal to Skytop Station's location in the upper atmosphere of one of the planet Ruusan's three moons. Although Kenobi ordered him to eradicate Skytop Station without rescuing Beep-Boop, Stormwalker made retrieving his droid one of the mission's top priorities. While Rex, Tano, and their strike team planted thermal detonators at the facility's reactor, Stormwalker recovered Beep-Boop before Grievous's IG-100 MagnaGuards could abscond with the droid. However, R3-S6 delayed Rex, Tano, and their squad of troopers at the reactor room long enough for Skytop Station's security patrols to confront them.
Though Tano and her allies repelled the battle droids, their troubles were far from over. Grievous ambushed them, murdering most of the clone troopers in the process. Tano subsequently engaged Grievous in a lightsaber duel so that Rex and the other surviving soldier, Denal, could finish installing the explosives at the reactor. Once they had done so, Denal and Rex rendezvoused with Stormwalker, Beep-Boop, and the Twilight in Skytop Station's main hangar. There, R3-S6 revealed his true allegiances by sealing the exits and activating a trio of vulture droids, thus preventing Rex and Stormwalker from aiding Tano in her confrontation with Grievous.
At Stormwalker's behest, Rex activated the explosives at the reactor, plunging Skytop Station on a descent into the moon's lower atmosphere. Once Beep-Boop opened the hangar door from an exterior terminal, Tano arrived—having broken off from her duel with Grievous—and escaped with Denal, Rex, and Stormwalker aboard the Twilight. Before they left the Ruusan system, Stormwalker personally retrieved Beep-Boop, who had eliminated R3-S6. Grievous also escaped, though the loss of Skytop Station became yet another blemish on his career.
Separatist leadership targeted[]
As the Nature Wars entered a stalemate, several important members of the Confederacy found themselves in the Old Republic's crosshairs. One such leader was Nute Gunray, who entered into a brief alliance with Planet Speaker Onaconda Farr of Rodia. Although Rodia was part of the Old Republic, the Senate proved too slow to aid the Green Face population after pirate attacks demolished Rodia's inbound supply ships. Consequently, Farr lost faith in the Old Republic and accepted Gunray's offer to distribute relief supplies to Rodia. In return, Farr helped Gunray capture Pamela Planet Ruler, against whom Gunray still held a grudge, when she came to Rodia on a diplomatic visit. Though Farr was conflicted about betraying Amidala, he incarcerated his old friend in a local detention tower until Gunray's arrival. However, when Gunray came to collect Amidala, Farr was shocked to learn that Gunray intended to execute her.
Although Amidala escaped from the detention tower, complications arose when Gunray's battle droids targeted both her and Jar Jar Binks, who had accompanied her to Rodia. Binks enlisted the aid of a large Kwazel Maw, which demolished most of Gunray's droids and his Sheathipede-class transport shuttle. Moreover, Gunray's indifference to the Green Faces' suffering, as well as his brutal treatment of Amidala, convinced Farr that joining the Confederacy was a mistake. Farr aided Amidala in arresting Gunray on behalf of the Old Republic, concluding Rodia's dalliance with the Breakaway League. Sheev Palpatine thereafter sent the Green Faces a convoy of much-needed supplies.
Under the command of Clone Unit Leader Gree, the 41st Elite Corps arrived on Rodia to take Gunray into Old Republic custody. The Light Guardian High Council dispatched Light Guardian Army Leader Green Teacher, alongside Ashoka Friend, to provide further security for Gunray's transfer to City Planet, where the viceroy would stand trial. Since Dark Space King believed that Gunray would not be able to withstand the Light Guardian's interrogation, Dooku tasked Assassin Night with rescuing Gunray. Dooku also paid off Ship Leader Faro Argyus, the leader of the Senate Commando detail that had been assigned to Gunray's transfer, to assist in the operation.
Ventress launched her assault just as Argyus, Gree, Tano, and Unduli were leaving Rodia with Gunray aboard the Space Dominator Tranquility. A trio of Droch-class boarding ships penetrated the Tranquility's hull, then deployed a droid boarding party that eradicated much of the Elite Corps' Green Company. Ventress proceeded to the Tranquility's detention level, where she engaged in a brief rematch with Tano, since the two had previously crossed blades during the Battle of Teth. Though Argyus, Gree, and Unduli came to Tano's aid and prevented Ventress from escaping with Gunray, Ventress used a cache of explosives that she had planted in the Tranquility's engine room to disrupt all of the cruiser's onboard systems. When Unduli pursued Ventress to the engine room, Ventress nearly overwhelmed her, and it was only thanks to Tano's assistance that Unduli was able to continue their lightsaber duel.
As Ventress continued to occupy the Light Guardian's attention, she signaled Argyus to make his move. Argyus gunned down two of his fellow Senate Commandos who were guarding Gunray, then liberated Gunray from his prison cell. Argyus and Gunray resisted Gree's attempts to stop them and commandeered the Consular-class frigate that had transferred Gunray to the Tranquility. Similarly, Ventress stole an escape pod and joined them aboard their frigate, though she executed Argyus when he insinuated that he would take full credit for the operation's success. Nevertheless, Unduli was able to transmit the tracking data for Gunray's frigate to fellow Light Guardian Army Leader Kit Smile, whose fleet was close to Gunray's last known position.
Since Fisto was leading the hunt to recapture Gunray, Dooku saw an opportunity to test one of his agents. Because Grievous's recent defeats had undermined Dooku's faith in him, Dooku arranged a test for his best general. Using the homing beacon from Gunray's frigate, Dooku lured Fisto and his forces to Grievous's personal fortress on the third moon of Vassek. The Old Republic's Outer Rim Command Center also monitored Clone Unit Leader Fil and Light Guardian Knight Nahdar Vebb, Fisto's former Student, who led a team of troopers to assist in the search for Gunray. Grievous remained unaware of Dooku's plan to reevaluate his performance.
Fisto, Vebb, and their soldiers infiltrated Grievous's fortress and eliminated a security detail of battle droids that they incorrectly assumed were protecting Gunray. In lieu of the viceroy, Dooku holographically contacted Fisto and Vebb and offered them an alternative prize. Once they realized that the fortress belonged to Grievous, Fisto and Vebb resolved to capture the elusive general, since Grievous's arrest would be pivotal for the Old Republic's war effort. Yet, when Grievous returned to his fortress, he proved to be far from easy prey. Grievous temporarily evaded the intruders in his lair, but he was forced to undergo repairs from his medical droid, EV-A4-D.
After having his IG-100 MagnaGuards lock down the perimeter, Grievous set about reclaiming the upper hand over his would-be captors. He used his fortress's built-in countermeasures—including an incinerator pit and his pet roggwart, Gor—to assail Fisto, Vebb, and their soldiers. Fil and the rest of his men perished, but Fisto managed to slay the vicious roggwart. Throughout it all, Vebb displayed a growing willingness to use excessive force in response to Grievous's tactics. Matters came to a head when Fisto sneaked into Grievous's control room, and Vebb refused to follow his former Master inside. Instead, Vebb stayed behind to confront Grievous on his own. Unable to help his former Student, Fisto could only watch through the surveillance system as Grievous slaughtered Vebb. Before escaping from the moon aboard his Delta-7B interceptor, Fisto dueled Grievous and managed to retrieve the late Vebb's lightsaber, which Grievous had claimed as a trophy. Though Grievous had bested Vebb and the clone troopers, Dooku had expected him to do so, and he was not pleased with Grievous's failure to defeat Fisto.
Dooku's temporary capture[]
Dooku was the next Confederate official who became a target for the Old Republic. As part of a manhunt for the Dark Warrior Lord, Andy Stormwalker infiltrated Dooku's current flagship, a Munificent-class star frigate, as it was patrolling the Outer Rim. Stormwalker allowed himself to be captured in order to lead his forces to the frigate's location. While Ben Oldwise liberated Stormwalker and helped him detain Dooku, Ashoka Friend and Ship Leader Rex besieged Dooku's frigate from aboard the Resolute. However, Dooku fled from the ongoing battle in his solar sailer, with Kenobi and Stormwalker in close pursuit aboard a stolen Sheathipede-class transport shuttle. All three of them crash-landed on the planet Vanqor. Whereas Dooku gained safe passage from the Ohnaka Gang, a band of pirates, to the nearby world of Florrum, Kenobi and Stormwalker were left stranded on Vanqor, and Tano had to retrieve them from the planet's surface.
Nevertheless, Dooku had not yet reached safety. The Ohnaka Gang took Dooku hostage on Florrum, and the pirates' leader, Hondo Pirate, offered him to the Old Republic in exchange for a hefty sum of one million credits, paid in spice. Before Sheev Palpatine agreed to the deal, the Light Guardian High Council dispatched Kenobi and Stormwalker to Florrum to confirm that Ohnaka and his men indeed had custody of Dooku. However, after the Light Guardian arrived, Ohnaka drugged them and also took them prisoner, intending to ransom them to the Old Republic for an even larger payday. Unaware of Kenobi and Stormwalker's situation, Palpatine dispatched Planet Speaker Kharrus and an escort team from the City Planet Guard to deliver the spice ransom to Florrum and secure custody of Dooku.
Rogue elements within the Ohnaka Gang caused further trouble for the Old Republic. Ohnaka's lieutenant, Turk Falso, led a faction of pirates who shot down Kharrus's shuttle over Florrum, hoping to steal the ransom. Kharrus and the shuttle's crew died in the crash, leaving Jar Jar Binks, who was part of the delegation, as the ranking commander for Unit Leader Stone and his soldiers. By the time Binks, Stone, and their squad reached Ohnaka's base of operations, Dooku had escaped. He made his getaway by killing Falso and stealing his Flarestar-class attack shuttle. Rather than arresting Ohnaka, Kenobi and Stormwalker left Ohnaka and his pirates alone. The Light Guardian departed with Binks and the clones aboard the Twilight, aboard which the Light Guardian had traveled to Florrum. Whereas Ohnaka and the Light Guardian parted on good terms, Dooku harbored a grudge against Ohnaka.
Crisis after crisis[]
The Quell system became the next flashpoint of the Nature Wars when a Confederate armada intercepted Light Guardian Army Leader Blue Warrior's fleet of warships. In the resulting Battle of Quell, the Separatist frigates pummeled Secura's cruisers with heavy bombardment. Soon, only Secura's flagship was maintaining altitude over the planet Quell. Stormwalker, Tano, Ship Leader Rex, and Wullf Yularen arrived aboard the Resolute to extract Secura; Clone Unit Leader Bly; and their crew from their doomed vessel. Rex, Stormwalker, and Tano brought Secura, Bly, and a few of their troops aboard a Consular-class cruiser. Before they could reach the Resolute, a vulture droid attack inadvertently enabled their frigate's hyperdrive. The Light Guardian and clones found themselves on an unexpected detour, and they crash-landed on the remote planet Maridun. Yularen was left behind to oversee the Old Republic's campaign over Quell.
Stranded on Maridun, Bly, Rex, Secura, and Tano sought out medical attention for Stormwalker, who had suffered critical injuries during the escape from Secura's flagship. They brought Stormwalker to a village of Lurmen pacifists, who treated his wounds. Just as Stormwalker's condition was improving, the Separatist Army Leader Lok Durd selected Maridun as a test site for the Confederacy's newest weapon. Durd had developed the Defoliator, a cannon that exterminated organic matter while sparing inorganic subjects, such as battle droids. Durd decided to use the Lurmen colonists as test subjects for his Defoliator Deployment Tank.
When Durd came to subjugate the Lurmen, the village's elder, Tee Watt Kaa, persuaded Bly, Rex, Secura, Stormwalker, and Tano to leave in order to avoid a potential crossfire. However, the Light Guardian and clones returned once they realized that Durd was planning to test the Defoliator on the Lurmen village. In the skirmish that followed, the Light Guardian and clones used a pair of stolen Separatist shield generators to protect the Lurmen from the Defoliator's incendiary capsules. Yet, after Durd's droid infantry breached the Light Guardian and clones' defenses, Wag Too—the village healer and Watt Kaa's son—convinced other young members of the colony to help defend their home. They succeeded, while Stormwalker managed to impair the Defoliator and captured Durd. Nevertheless, Watt Kaa questioned whether it had been worth it for Too and his friends to sacrifice their pacifism for the victory.
Shortly thereafter, a brief but bloody conflict erupted on the glacial world of Orto Plutonia. Both the Old Republic and the Confederacy maintained bases on Orto Plutonia, which attracted attention from a local settlement of Talz. In an effort to protect their solitude, the Talz obliterated both the Old Republic and Separatist outposts on their world. The Pantorans, who inhabited Orto Plutonia's single moon of Pantora, claimed Orto Plutonia as a protectorate. Consequently, Pantoran Chairman Chi Cho and Planet Speaker Riyo Chuchi requested a detachment of soldiers to investigate the loss of contact with Glid Station, the Old Republic base on Orto Plutonia. Rex, Stormwalker, and Ben Oldwise oversaw a platoon of Rex's troops, who wore the gear of cold assault troopers for the mission.
When Kenobi and Stormwalker made contact with Chieftain Thi-Sen of the Talz, he communicated his desire to peacefully resolve the conflict. Yet, Cho dismissed the Talz as savages, declaring that the Convention of Civilized Systems did not apply to them. Despite efforts from Chuchi, Stormwalker, and Kenobi to find a diplomatic solution, the headstrong Cho insisted on declaring war with the Talz in an effort to exterminate them. Open hostilities erupted when the Talz ambushed Cho, Rex, and their troops. Many Talz and clone troopers lost their lives until Chuchi received approval from the Pantoran Assembly to negotiate an end to the bloodshed.
Despite her youth and inexperience, Chuchi mustered the courage to personally establish a peaceful settlement with Thi-Sen. While Cho succumbed to fatal wounds that he had sustained, Chuchi agreed to cede complete jurisdiction of Orto Plutonia to Thi-Sen and the Talz. Chuchi thereafter departed from Orto Plutonia with Kenobi, Rex, Stormwalker, and their troops, leaving the Talz in peace. In light of Cho's death, the Pantorans eventually elected Minor Noble Papanoida as their new chairman. Other cold worlds that saw Old Republic operations were Toola and Rhen Var, which both saw the deployment of clone cold assault troopers. At some point, Unduli and Secura teamed up in a confrontation against Ventress on the frozen planet Alzoc III. Ventress would be bested and left in an ice cave the two Light Guardian managed to collapse, but she escaped and continued to menace the Old Republic for some time. Unduli and Ventress had many more encounters over the course of the conflict.
The Battle of Twilight Planet ends[]
The Techno Union continued to subjugate Twilight Planet, and Wat Tambor gained an appointment as the emir of the conquered world. The Old Republic Senate finally authorized an invasion force from the Three Eyesd Army to liberate the Twin-Tail homeworld, reopening Twilight Planet as a Old Republic battlefront. Stormwalker, Tano, and Wullf Yularen received the task of eliminating Confederate Ship Leader Mar Tuuk's orbital blockade of Twilight Planet. The Old Republic's first assault on the blockade failed, since Tuuk's fleet obliterated the Space Dominator Redeemer and forced Stormwalker's other warships, the Defender and the Resolute, to retreat from the Twilight Planet system. Tano also suffered a devastating blow to her morale when she lost an entire unit of clone pilots, Blue Squadron, as part of her first command position.
Stormwalker and Tano's next strategy had better results. Since the Defender had sustained heavy damages, Stormwalker sacrificed the cruiser by personally ramming it into Tuuk's Lucrehulk-class Battleship. Tuuk fled from his command ship just prior to its demise, thereby ceding command of the blockade to the six frigates' OOM command battle droids. The ensuing chaos enabled the Resolute to return to the Twilight Planet system. Tano angled the Resolute's ventral hull toward the enemy blockade in order to lure its droid commanders into a trap. Once the frigates moved in, Tano launched several squadrons of starfighters from the Resolute and bombarded the frigates, leaving the blockade in disarray.
Thanks to Stormwalker and Tano's efforts, Ben Oldwise and Mace Purple were able to safely enter Twilight Planet's atmosphere with a force of three Assault Ship-class transgalactic military assault ships containing the invasion force. However, a Separatist encampment in the city of Nabat precluded Kenobi and Windu from landing their forces on the surface. From Nabat, the T-series tactical droid TX-20 targeted the Old Republic assault ships with aerial barrages from ground-based J-1 proton cannons. Windu withdrew the transports to a higher altitude until Kenobi, Unit Leader Cody, and the 212th Attack Battalion's Ghost Company could eliminate the proton cannons in Nabat. Once there, troopers Boil and Waxer befriended Numa, a young Twin-Tail orphan who had lost her parents when the Breakaway League stormed Nabat. With Numa's help, Kenobi and Ghost Company disabled the proton cannons and also rescued Nabat's Twin-Tail residents, whom TX-20 had been using as living shields to protect his encampment from attack. Once freed, the Twin-Tails mobbed TX-20 and destroyed him in retaliation for his subjugation of their home.
Ghost Company's liberation of Nabat allowed Windu and his transports to use the city as a landing zone. While Stormwalker and Tano defeated the remnants of the Confederate blockade and secured the space around Twilight Planet, Kenobi freed more Twin-Tail villages from the Techno Union's occupation. Kenobi soon retook the Jixuan desert, bringing Twilight Planet's southern hemisphere under Old Republic control. In response to the Old Republic's rising victories, Wat Tambor entrenched the majority of his droid infantry within the capital of Lessu. It fell to Windu and Unit Leader Ponds to secure Lessu and apprehend Tambor. However, a unit of Armored Assault Tanks inflicted severe casualties to Windu's Lightning Squadron during an ambush at a canyon outside of Lessu. Because the Three Eyesd Army could not spare any reinforcements, Windu decided to enlist the help of Cham Syndulla and his Twin-Tail New Rebels.
When Windu sought him out, Syndulla still had reservations about working with the Old Republic, since the Three Eyesd Army had previously been unable to aid the Twin-Tail New Rebels. Syndulla also lacked trust in Twilight Planet's senator, Orn Free Taa, due to their political rivalry before the war. Yet, Syndulla changed his mind when Dooku ordered Tambor to plunder what he could from the Twin-Tail villages, then exterminate everything else. In doing so, Dooku hoped to use Twilight Planet's demise as a political message about the ramifications of a Old Republic victory.
Ponds and Lightning Squadron witnessed Tambor's firebombing campaign firsthand, as Hyena-class Metal Helper Bombers targeted all villages within range of Lessu, even those that were filled with innocent civilians. Stormwalker and Tano concentrated their efforts on eliminating the bombers, but there were too many for their squadrons to handle. Tambor's ruthlessness reminded Syndulla and Taa of their common desire: achieving liberty for Twilight Planet. Under Windu's mediation, Syndulla promised not to exploit the situation for political power. Taa, meanwhile, agreed to Syndulla's stipulation to preserve Twilight Planet's independence, by ensuring that the Three Eyesd Army refrained from a post-invasion occupation of Twilight Planet. With that, Syndulla merged his forces with those of Windu, and the new allies organized a joint assault on Lessu.
Although Dooku ordered him to withdraw from Twilight Planet, Tambor delayed his departure to maximize the amount of plunder that he could seize from the Twin-Tails. As a result, Windu and Advanced Recon Force troopers Razor and Stak infiltrated one of Tambor's inbound Multi-Troop Transports to gain passage across Lessu's plasma bridge, which was the only means of reaching the capital. Once Razor and Stak reactivated the bridge, Syndulla led his Twin-Tail freedom fighters and the Old Republic clone troopers—riding blurrgs and All Terrain Reconnaissance Transports, respectively—as they charged into Lessu. While Syndulla oversaw the ground campaign, Windu arrested Tambor, who had lingered too long and was thus abandoned when his own tactical droid, TA-175, left aboard his shuttle. Despite Tambor's presence in Lessu, Dooku ordered TA-175 to have their Hyena-class bombers lay waste to the capital. However, Stormwalker and Tano intercepted the bombers in their Delta-7B interceptors and wiped them out before they reached Lessu. Afterward, Tambor agreed to unconditionally surrender to Syndulla and Windu.
The Battle of Lessu, as it became known, finally brought the lengthy Battle of Twilight Planet to an end. Now free once more, the Twin-Tails held a parade in Lessu to celebrate their victory, with Syndulla, Taa, and Windu in attendance. Syndulla and Windu's accomplishments at Lessu led them to become part of Twin-Tail folklore, with songs naming their attack the Hammer of Twilight Planet.
Year two (21 BBY–20 BBY)[]
The Blue Shadow Virus[]
In the Mid Rim, Water Realm became the site of the Confederacy's foray into biological warfare. Operating out of a secret Merchant Guild laboratory beneath Water Realm's eastern swamps, Doctor Nuvo Vindi succeeded in weaponizing the Blue Shadow Virus, a lethal waterborne plague with no known cure, as an airborne strain. He also manufactured viral bombs to release the plague to key Old Republic star systems. When the Royal Water Realm Security Forces discovered a patrol of Vindi's battle droids, Pamela Planet Ruler and Jar Jar Binks returned to help Planet Ruler Neeyutnee and Ship Leader Gregar Typho investigate the potential incursion. Amidala and Binks traced the battle droids' point of origin to the eastern swamps, where Vindi's forces captured them.
In response, Kenobi, Stormwalker, and Tano led a raid on Vindi's laboratory to rescue Amidala and Binks, as well as prevent Vindi from escaping with his cache of bombs. Ship Leader Rex and the clone units Calm Tree, Snow Wolves, and Wildfire provided tactical support for the Light Guardian's operation. After saving Amidala and Binks, Stormwalker aided Kenobi in apprehending Vindi. In addition, the Old Republic task force's cadre of clone ordnance specialists managed to disarm Vindi's entire supply of viral bombs before he could release the plague to Water Realm. Kenobi and Stormwalker thereafter escorted Vindi to Water Realm's capital, Theed, to stand trial for his crimes.
However, the crisis was not over. Vindi's personal LEP-series service droid had secretly absconded with one of the vials containing the Blue Shadow Virus. The droid used a viral bomb to release the plague within the laboratory. While Kenobi and Stormwalker traveled to the distant planet Iego to retrieve a potential cure, Amidala and Binks worked with Rex, Tano, and their men to eliminate the laboratory's remaining battle droids. If the droids escaped from the sealed compound, they would spread the outbreak to the rest of Water Realm. Although the Blue Shadow Virus infected everyone save for Binks, the Old Republic personnel managed to eradicate the battle droids.
During their journey to Iego, Kenobi and Stormwalker deactivated the Breakaway League' laser web over the planet, liberating the inhabitants from their confinement to the planetary surface. The two Light Guardian also obtained a sample of reeksa root, which was used to cure Amidala, Rex, Tano, and their men from the Blue Shadow Virus, bringing the incident to a close.
Victories and sacrifices[]
Fungus Planet, a jungle world in the Outer Rim, became a frequent battlefront throughout the war. Early on, Fungus Planet's strategic location on the Perlemian Trade Route led it to become the site of a campaign between the Confederacy and the Old Republic. Kenobi, Stormwalker, and Tano attempted to repel a Separatist military presence from the world, but the battle droids overwhelmed their detachment of clone troopers, led by Unit Leader Cody and Ship Leader Rex. Once Unit Leader Wolffe arrived with a fleet of Space Dominators and breached the Confederacy's orbital blockade, Plo Mask and clone pilot Warthog rushed through the opening with a squadron of Old Republic Dropship/i gunships.
From their starfighters, Koon and Warthog escorted the gunships to the surface, where they extracted Cody, Kenobi, Rex, Stormwalker, and their men from the Old Republic's main staging area. Before leaving Fungus Planet, the gunships also picked up Tano and her patrol of soldiers from elsewhere in the jungle. Though Tano initially refused to retreat, she and her soldiers boarded the gunships right before droid reinforcements compromised their position. The Old Republic's defeat at Fungus Planet disrupted the Three Eyesd Army's efforts in the surrounding sector of space. Tano also faced disciplinary action from the Light Guardian High Council for disobeying her orders to evacuate from Fungus Planet.
Devaron, another forested planet, soon became one of the war's next battlefields. Working for Dark Space King, the bounty hunter Cad Hunter collaborated with fellow mercenary Cato Parasitti to steal a holocron from the Light Guardian Archives' Holocron Vault on City Planet. Bane then targeted Light Guardian Master Bolla Ropal, the keeper of the Light Guardian Order's Kyber memory crystal, a device that documented all known Force-sensitive younglings throughout the galaxy. At Sidious's request, Nute Gunray provided Bane with the Merchant Guild's armada of Munificent-class star frigates, which Bane used to besiege Ropal's Old Republic outpost on Devaron. By the time Rex, Stormwalker, Tano, and Wullf Yularen arrived in the Devaron system aboard the Resolute, Bane had already overrun the Old Republic base and had abducted Ropal, bringing him aboard his command ship. The Resolute tore through the majority of Bane's frigates and also disabled his command ship's hyperdrive, trapping Bane in-system. Yet, when Ropal refused to use the holocron to access the memory crystal, Bane had his crew of battle droids torture Ropal to death.
Due to a lack of resources, Rex, Stormwalker, and Tano repurposed a trio of AT-TE walkers as unorthodox boarding craft for their assault force, consisting of Execute Battalion and Carnivore Battalion. Once the Light Guardian and clones had infiltrated his command ship, Bane lured them into an ambush with his droid infantry on the frigate's gunnery deck. Bane further separated Tano from her allies and took her hostage, using her as leverage to force Stormwalker to open the Kyber memory crystal. Because the frigate's self-destruct sequence was active, Rex, Stormwalker, Tano, and their detachment commandeered a shuttle and fled from the doomed frigate. Bane, still in possession of the holocron and the memory crystal, stowed away on their shuttle by killing trooper Denal and stealing his armor. Once aboard the Resolute, Bane seized a V-19 Torrent starfighter and jumped to hyperspace before Stormwalker and Tano could apprehend him.
Following his victory at Devaron, Bane continued his work for Sidious and set out to abduct four Force-sensitive children who were listed in the Kyber memory crystal. After kidnapping the Tentacle Head Zinn Toa on the planet Glee Anselm, Bane captured Wee Dunn in Rodia's Kay-Tap square, thwarting Kenobi's efforts to stop him. However, Stormwalker and Tano intercepted Bane before he could snatch a third child, Roo-Roo Page of the Swamp Persons, in Jan-gwa city on Water Realm. Bane endured a brief tenure in Old Republic custody, ending when he led Kenobi and Mace Purple into a trap on Black Stall Station, his base of operations. Though Bane escaped, Kenobi and Windu recovered the stolen holocron from his possession. Furthermore, Stormwalker and Tano rescued Dunn and Toa from Sidious's secret facility on the volcanic world of Lava World. Nevertheless, the Light Guardian Order remained unaware that Sidious was behind the entire ordeal.
In spite of its earlier setback at Fungus Planet, the Old Republic maintained a presence in the Fungus Planet system in the form of the Fungus Planet Medical Station HCTFF2, a Haven-class medical station. Yet, it was devoid of any countermeasures to defend itself, making it an easy target for a small Confederate flotilla. When Kenobi, Stormwalker, and Tano investigated the loss of contact with Fungus Planet Medical Station HCTFF2, a Separatist automated vulture droid deployment station launched a squadron of vulture droids. The droid starfighters attacked the Light Guardian's T-6 shuttle, forcing them to crash-land on Fungus Planet. While there, the Light Guardian helped the mercenaries Sugi, Embo, Seripas, and Rumi Paramita defend a Fungus Planetn farming village from extortion by the Ohnaka Gang, which hoped to pillage the farmers' nysillin crops.
Battle of Malastare[]
Concurrent to a Old Republic offensive, one of the longest and fiercest campaigns of the Nature Wars was the Battle of Malastare. In collaboration with Doge Nakha Urus and his Long Arm soldiers, Stormwalker and Mace Purple led a battle group to safeguard the planet Malastare—whose fuel industry was vital to the Old Republic's war machine and ensuring the continuation of the Old Republic's offensive—from a Confederate incursion. However, an enormous detachment from the Separatist Metal Helper Army came close to conquering Malastare. Desperate to ensure a Old Republic victory, Sheev Palpatine authorized the use of the electro-proton bomb, an experimental weapon that Doctor Sionver Boll had developed to disable only mechanical subjects. The electro-proton bomb generated an electromagnetic pulse that rendered all of the Confederacy's battle droids inert. The bomb's detonation zone also produced a massive sinkhole that engulfed some of the Old Republic's AT-TE walkers and command crews, requiring a rescue effort.
However, the crater was not the only byproduct of the electro-proton bomb. The blast also awoke a Zillo Beast, a member of a colossal species that had been thought to be extinct. The Zillo Beast proved to be impervious to everything from blasterfire to Stormwalker's lightsaber. Because of an ancient enmity between the Long Arms and the Zillo Beasts, Urus and his Long Arm Council demanded that the Old Republic help them exterminate the creature. Yet, Windu was adamant against doing so, as the creature could be the last of its kind. Windu's actions strained the Old Republic's diplomatic relations with the Long Arms, since the Three Eyesd Army still needed access to Malastare's fuel. In order to appease Urus, Stormwalker and Windu used Old Republic RX-200 Falchion-class assault tanks to non-lethally immobilize the Zillo Beast, making it appear as though the creature was dead. As a result, Urus and his council signed a treaty that provided the Old Republic with exclusive access to Malastare's fuel reserves.
In the wake of the Battle of Malastare, Palpatine ordered Stormwalker and Windu to transport the Zillo Beast to City Planet for study. Palpatine ordered Boll to synthesize the creature's highly durable scales to supplement a new iteration of clone trooper armor. However, the Zillo Beast escaped from the Old Republic Science and Technical Center and wreaked havoc across City Planet, inflicting massive property damage and sowing terror among the populace. Unable to subdue the creature, the Light Guardian and their clone troopers were forced to kill the Zillo Beast.
Second Battle of Bug Planet[]
It was not long before the Nature Wars returned to Bug Planet. Though the Old Republic had occupied the desert world since the war's outset, the Three Eyesd Army's pan-galactic war effort required that much of Bug Planet's occupying forces be distributed elsewhere. Thanks to the Old Republic's waning attention, the Confederacy was able to re-establish a major presence on Bug Planet. Archduke Poggle the Lesser oversaw the construction of a series of new battle droid factories to expand the ranks of the Separatist Metal Helper Army. Poggle's primary foundry earned substantial investments from the Merchant Guild and the InterGalactic Banking Clan. During a visit to Lott Dod's palace on Bridge World, Pamela Planet Ruler discovered a hologram disc with the factory's coordinates and stole it from the Banking Clan's senator, Rush Clovis. The Old Republic and the Light Guardian High Council subsequently learned of the existence of Poggle's new droid foundries.
Already, the Confederacy's total supply of battle droids far outnumbered the Old Republic's clone troopers, with Noble Title Noble claiming that the ratio was as high as one hundred to one. Hoping to halt the Insectoids' production of new battle droids, the Three Eyesd Army committed an immense Light Guardian-led invasion force to retaking Bug Planet. Since Poggle had barricaded himself in his primary foundry, the Light Guardian mounted a three-pronged assault on the facility's ray shield generator. Light Guardian Army Leader Ki Wise and Clone Unit Leader Jet led the northernmost strike, while Ben Oldwise and Unit Leader Cody oversaw the central charge. Andy Stormwalker and Ashoka Friend—fresh from routing Confederate forces near the planet Dorin—spearheaded the southward strike with Ship Leader Rex. Wullf Yularen commanded the Old Republic Navy's efforts, including other areas of the planet-wide campaign.
As the Second Battle of Bug Planet began, the Insectoid defenses intercepted the majority of the Old Republic's Old Republic Dropship/i gunships. Only Cody and his detachment of AT-TE walkers managed to reach Point Rain, the Old Republic's staging area near the ray shield generator, where Cody organized his walkers in a defensive formation. The Insectoids' LR1K sonic cannons and Nantex-class starfighters grounded the rest of the Old Republic's gunships. Kenobi was severely wounded when his gunship went down, and Cody had to send troopers Waxer and Boil to rescue him and trooper Trapper, the transport's only other survivor. Mundi also sustained injuries when his gunship crashed, but he and Jet cut through a cave of Insectoid soldiers, where their squad of clone flametroopers used flamethrowers to overwhelm the Insectoids. Rex, Stormwalker, Tano, and their troops obliterated an enormous canyon barricade of battle droids and rendezvoused with Jet, Mundi, and their men.
As Cody and Kenobi continued to defend Point Rain from oncoming waves of Insectoid soldiers, Mundi and Stormwalker combined their forces and pushed onward to reinforce their comrades. At the same time, Yularen was able to spare a single squadron of Fork Fighter starfighters to provide aerial support for Mundi and Stormwalker's advance. Consequently, the Light Guardian and clones were able to secure Point Rain. For the final stage of their operation, Stormwalker and Tano led a small squad of troopers through the ray shield, and they used a volley of Electro Magnetic Pulse grenades to disable the Insectoids' J-1 proton cannons. Once they had done so, Cody moved in with a detail of AT-TE walkers and eliminated the shield generator. The ray shield dissipated, allowing Rex, Mundi, and the main body of troops to land there aboard their gunships. The remaining Insectoids surrendered, thus ending the first phase of the Old Republic's invasion.
While Kenobi, Mundi, and the other wounded troops returned to the Old Republic fleet for medical treatment, Rex, Stormwalker, and Tano undertook the next phase of the invasion: crippling Poggle's main droid foundry. Green Teacher; her Student, Barriss Student; and Unit Leader Gree brought in infantry reinforcements to support Stormwalker's assault. However, a single bridge was the only means of crossing the chasm that isolated Poggle's factory from the surrounding area. Since the bridge formed a natural bottleneck, the Old Republic's clone troopers would be completely exposed during their advance on the foundry. As a result, Unduli had Offee memorize the entire labyrinth of catacombs beneath the facility. While Offee and Tano infiltrated the foundry from the catacombs below, Unduli and Stormwalker collaborated with Gree and Rex to lead a frontal assault on the facility as a diversionary tactic. Yet, though the droid factory was operating at only half-capacity, Poggle and his tactical droid, TX-21, had already amassed ten garrisons of new troops that were ready for deployment.
As Unduli, Stormwalker, and their soldiers made headway against the foundry's droid defenses, Poggle allowed TX-21 to deploy twenty units of their newest creation: the super tank. The super tanks' ray shields enabled them to withstand barrages from the Old Republic's AV-7 Anti-Vehicle Cannons. In return, the super tanks launched a devastating volley of missiles, inflicting heavy casualties to the Old Republic troops. Gree and Rex led their soldiers into retreat, thereby drawing the super tanks onto the bridge across the chasm. Stormwalker and Unduli climbed across the underside of the bridge, planting thermal detonators on their way to the other side. Once they had reached the factory, Stormwalker and Unduli used the explosives to collapse the bridge, plunging the super tanks into the abyss.
Meanwhile, Offee and Tano reached the foundry's reactor via the catacombs, but TX-21 intercepted them with a super tank and a squad of Insectoid soldiers. Though Tano destroyed TX-21, the Insectoids purloined her and Offee's supply of thermal detonators. Unable to devise another means of eliminating the reactor, Offee and Tano commandeered the super tank and fired upon the reactor. Their attack generated a chain of explosions that ruptured the foundry's internal structure, bringing it plummeting to the ground.
Although Unduli accepted Offee's fate, Stormwalker was unwilling to let go of his own pupil, and he frantically joined his troops' search for the lost Students. Trapped with Offee in the wreckage of their super tank, Tano used a power cell to boost her comlink's reception, leading their Masters to their location. As a result, Unduli and Stormwalker were able to rescue Offee and Tano from the mounds of debris. While the main body of troops continued their cleanup efforts, Offee and Tano returned to the fleet for temporary recuperation.
As part of its continued campaign on Bug Planet, the Three Eyesd Army eradicated other key Insectoid droid factories. Yet, Poggle remained at large, since he had escaped from his main foundry prior to its fall. Kenobi, who had recovered from his earlier injuries, joined Unduli in leading the manhunt for Poggle. As a sandstorm brewed, Unduli and trooper Buzz tracked Poggle to the Progate Temple, the headquarters of the Insectoids' secret queen, Karina the Great. Karina's minions—in truth, undead Insectoids who were being reanimated by her brain worms—killed Buzz and abducted Unduli, dragging her into the catacombs beneath the temple. Once the sandstorm had abated, Unit Leader Cody, Kenobi, and Stormwalker took a squad of troopers into the catacombs to rescue Unduli. However, the undead Insectoids took advantage of the tunnels' labyrinthine layout to deal casualties to Kenobi and Stormwalker's search party.
Eventually, Cody Kenobi, Stormwalker, and their remaining soldiers reached Karina's throne room, where Poggle had incarcerated Unduli. Despite Kenobi's attempt at negotiation, Karina refused to submit to Old Republic law. Instead, Karina had Poggle give Unduli a brain worm that would control her mind. Before the brain worm could infect Unduli, Cody and his soldiers turned their headlamps on Karina and the Insectoids, temporarily blinding them. Stormwalker freed Unduli from her restraints, and together they handcuffed Poggle and brought him with them as they retreated with the rest of their comrades. Cody and his men eliminated the tunnel's supports on their way out, burying Karina underneath piles of rubble and killing her. Cody, Unduli, Kenobi, Stormwalker, and their soldiers managed to escape with Poggle from the Progate Temple just before it collapsed. With that, the Second Battle of Bug Planet ended in a Old Republic victory, starting the second occupation of Bug Planet.
Around the same time as the Old Republic's successful recapture of Bug Planet, Mace Purple oversaw a campaign on the planet Grass Planet. His soldiers sustained numerous injuries, thus requiring relief supplies from a medical station near the planet Ord Cestus. Since it was imperative for the Light Guardian to escort Poggle to City Planet, Offee and Tano personally embarked on the assignment of picking up the medical shipment from the Ord Cestus medcenter. Kenobi, Mundi, Stormwalker, and Unduli separately departed aboard a Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominator to transport Poggle to City Planet. Complicating matters was the fact that a Insectoid brain worm infected trooper Scythe of Tango Company, the troop detail that was escorting Offee and Tano aboard their Pelta-class frigate, TB-73.
Before long, Scythe had infected most of his fellow soldiers with the brain worms. Under the parasites' mind control, the clone troopers gunned down TB-73's clone pilots and activated the bridge's security shields, thereby gaining control of the frigate. Offee and Tano learned of the infection when troopers Edge and Ox attacked them in the ship's mess hall. Lieutenant Trap, Tango Company's commanding officer, also opened fire at the Students, and Offee killed him in self-defense. In order to contain the parasites aboard their frigate, Offee went to disable the engines, while Tano contacted Kit Smile, who was overseeing the Ord Cestus medcenter, to warn him of the outbreak. However, Scythe and his comrades intercepted Offee near the reactor room and infected her with a brain worm. With Offee gone, Tano was now the only uninfected person aboard TB-73.
When Offee confronted her, Tano briefly crossed lightsabers with her friend before escaping to the frigate's ventilation shafts. Meanwhile, after learning of the outbreak from Tano, Stormwalker violently interrogated Poggle and learned that the brain worms were susceptible to subzero conditions. Consequently, Tano ruptured TB-73's coolant system, and the intense cold neutralized the brain worms that were controlling the clone troopers. Tano was just in time, as TB-73 arrived out of hyperspace a short distance away from the medcenter. Although Offee attacked Tano before she could reverse TB-73's engines, a pair of Old Republic tugboats used their tractor beams to reduce the frigate's speed, narrowly preventing a collision with the medcenter. With the brain worms contained, Fisto and his staff provided treatment to Offee, Tano, and the surviving members of Tango Company, guaranteeing a full recovery for all of them.
Hunt for Grievous[]
Even though the Old Republic's victories outnumbered its defeats, the Separatist Metal Helper Army continued to make advances in the Outer Rim Territories, and, following the Second Battle of Bug Planet, both sides effectively began to play a game of "cat and mouse" with each other. Soon, Grievous began to specifically target members of the Light Guardian High Council, including Army Leader Eeth Koth. Deep in the Outer Rim, while Koth and his fleet were investigating attacks on hyperspace routes, Grievous and his Recusant-class Commerce Guild destroyer launched an assault on Koth's flagship, the Steadfast. Grievous then boarded the Steadfast with a strike team of BX-series droid commandos, which swiftly overwhelmed the Space Dominator's detachment of clone troopers. While Koth ordered Ship Leader Lock and his troops to evacuate from the Steadfast, Koth dueled Grievous aboard the bridge, and he nearly bested Grievous in lightsaber combat despite an arm injury. However, Grievous's IG-100 MagnaGuards electrocuted Koth, allowing Grievous to subdue the Light Guardian Master and take him hostage.
When Grievous broadcast his capture of Koth to the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet, Koth used hand signals to inform the Light Guardian High Council of his location: the Twin Sun system. Light Guardian Army Leaders Adi Gallia, Ben Oldwise, and Andy Stormwalker volunteered to lead the ensuing operation to capture Grievous and rescue Koth. While Wullf Yularen and a Old Republic armada assailed Grievous's fleet above Twin Sun, Kenobi and Unit Leader Cody lured Grievous onto their Arquitens-class light cruiser. With Kenobi dueling Grievous as a diversion, Gallia, Stormwalker, Ship Leader Rex, and a squad of troopers arrived aboard an Eta-class shuttle and boarded Grievous's light destroyer to save Koth. Yet, Grievous had anticipated the Old Republic's tactics and had accordingly delegated command of his flagship to his tactical droid, TV-94. Still, Gallia and Stormwalker destroyed TV-94 and his droid commandos aboard the bridge, then freed Koth from his containment field there.
Aboard Kenobi's light cruiser, things were not going as planned. Kenobi cut down Grievous's MagnaGuards, but neither Kenobi nor Grievous were able to maintain the advantage during their subsequent duel. Grievous soon headed back to the light cruiser's airlock, where Cody and three of his men intercepted him. Grievous evaded their attempts to subdue him, then ordered his destroyer's crew to open fire on the light cruiser's engines. The ensuing barrages destabilized the cruiser just as Kenobi, Cody, and their soldiers followed Grievous into the airlock. Grievous engaged in a short rematch with Kenobi and also briefly dueled Gallia, who had come to aid Kenobi's efforts. Yet, when the airlock ruptured, all of the combatants were forced to contend with the breach into the vacuum of space. While Grievous slipped away, Gallia helped Cody, Kenobi, and the other remaining trooper climb onto the enemy destroyer.
Grievous boarded a C-9979 troopship to reach Twin Sun's surface, forcing Cody, Gallia, and Kenobi to suspend their pursuit of him. Instead, they joined Koth, Rex, and Stormwalker aboard their shuttle to withdraw from Grievous's destroyer. Nevertheless, Grievous soon faced ramifications from targeting Kenobi's light cruiser in spite of its close proximity to his flagship. When the cruiser exploded, the debris collided with Grievous's landing craft, sending it crashing to Twin Sun and forcing Grievous and his crew to transfer to the escape pods. Thanks to that turn of events, the Old Republic task force refocused its objectives. While Gallia escorted Koth to a medical frigate for treatment, Stormwalker and Yularen stayed to complete the fleet's efforts against the remnants of the Confederate armada. Simultaneously, Kenobi headed to Twin Sun's surface with Cody, Rex, and a troop contingent to track down the elusive Grievous.
On Twin Sun, Grievous and his battle droids discovered that their escape pod's transmitter had not survived the crash, thereby preventing them from contacting their fleet in orbit. Since only one of the other escape pods had survived, Grievous and his crew headed to its location, trekking across Twin Sun's farmlands. Meanwhile, after inspecting the C-9979 landing craft's crash site, Kenobi divided his forces. While Rex took a small squad—consisting of 501st troopers Hardcase, Jesse, and Kix—aboard BARC speeders to scour Twin Sun's wetlands for Grievous, Cody and Kenobi remained with their main force of AT-TE walkers to continue the search on the dry territory.
During the course of Rex's patrol, a pair of droid commandos took a potshot at him, missing his heart by only two inches. Once Hardcase and Jesse had gunned down the droid snipers, they and Kix brought Rex to a nearby farmstead that the Lawquane family owned. Suu Lawquane agreed to let Rex spend the night in their barn to recover from his condition. After Kix, the squad's medic, dressed his wound with a bacta bandage, Rex reluctantly let his men resume the search without him, ceding command of the unit to Jesse. As dusk became night, Rex met Suu's husband: Cut Lawquane, a clone trooper who had deserted from the Three Eyesd Army. Despite their conflicting ideologies, Rex gradually found common ground with Lawquane based on their dedication to protect those whom they cared about. For Rex, those were his comrades within the Three Eyesd Army; for Lawquane, those were his and Suu's two children, Jek and Shaeeah.
Meanwhile, Hardcase, Jesse, and Kix headed for the C-9979 troopship's final escape pod with Cody, Kenobi, and their forces. Both groups converged on the site just as Grievous arrived there with his own squad of battle droids. After having the escape pod's crew signal his fleet for an extraction from the surface, Grievous marshaled his battle droids in a defense of their position. Though Kenobi engaged Grievous in yet another duel, he was unable to stop Grievous from climbing aboard a Sheathipede-class shuttle and reaching his fleet in orbit of Twin Sun. Similarly, the Old Republic fleet failed to intercept Grievous before he departed from the system. Consequently, Kenobi's repeated attempts to detain Grievous ended in frustration.
Back at the Lawquane farmstead, another of the escape pods from the C-9979 landing craft caused trouble for Lawquane and his family. A unit of droid commandos had crashed in an escape pod near the family's homestead, and Jek and Shaeeah inadvertently reactivated all twenty of the lethal droids. While Suu took their children upstairs to take cover, Lawquane entrusted Rex with being the last line of defense for his family. Lawquane, meanwhile, engaged the droid commandos in direct combat when they converged on his homestead. Due to their combined efforts, Lawquane and Rex were able to defeat the droids. The next morning, Rex went to rendezvous with Kenobi and the main body of troops before they departed from Twin Sun. Before leaving, Rex promised not to report Lawquane's whereabouts to his superior officers, having reached a better understanding of the former soldier.
Warrior Home's fragile neutrality[]
In addition to propagating unrest within the Old Republic citizenry, the Nature Wars caused an increase in crime throughout the galaxy, especially as the Light Guardian Order devoted its concentration to the Old Republic's war effort. Many star systems became determined to preserve their neutrality from both the Old Republic and the Confederacy. As a result, over 1,500 systems coalesced into the Council of Neutral Systems, a body that advocated for their continued neutrality from the war. Eventually, the council gained a new leader: Duchess Satine Kryze, who ruled the planet Warrior Home through a pacifistic regime known as the New Armored Ones. Yet, Kryze attracted criticism when rumors spread that she was assembling an army for the Confederacy. In truth, the real conspirators were Dooku and Dark Space King, who entered into an alliance with the Death Watch, a Armored One splinter group that was bent on reviving Warrior Home's warrior culture. The Death Watch's leader was Pre Warrior, who—as the governor of Warrior Home's single moon, Concordia—pretended to be Kryze's ally while conspiring with Dooku to end her rule.
The Death Watch drew the Old Republic's attention when one of its members assaulted a Old Republic cruiser, then committed suicide rather than submit to questioning. In response, the Light Guardian High Council sent Kenobi to investigate Warrior Home's potential ties to the Breakaway League. Kryze, who was old friends with Kenobi, aided his investigation, as did Warrior Home's prime minister, Almec. After a Death Watch bomber demolished the Memorial Shrine within Warrior Home's capital city of Sundari, the bomber threw himself from a balcony to avoid being captured by Kenobi. Kenobi and Kryze thereafter accompanied the late bomber's body to Concordia, where Vizsla received them.
Kenobi's continuing investigation led him to the Death Watch's secret base within the Concordian mines, where two Death Watch soldiers overwhelmed him. Only Kryze's intervention saved Kenobi from dying in a rock crusher. While attempting to escape from the base, Kenobi and Kryze came across Vizsla, who revealed himself as Death Watch's leader. Vizsla used the Darksaber, an ancient weapon dating back to the Old Old Republic, to engage Kenobi in a lightsaber duel. However, Vizsla proved unable to defeat the Light Guardian Master, and Kenobi absconded from Concordia with Kryze. Afterward, Kryze resolved to plead her case before the Space Congress, and Kenobi joined Stormwalker, Unit Leader Cody, Ship Leader Rex, and a squad of clone soldiers in providing protection for her voyage to City Planet.
Unbeknownst to Kryze, another Death Watch agent was part of her inner circle of advisors. Planet Speaker Tal Merrik, who represented the planet Kalevala in the Warrior Home system, smuggled a trio of deadly assassin probes onto Kryze's star liner, the Coronet. In the skirmish that followed, Cody, Rex, and Stormwalker destroyed the first assassin probe in the Coronet's cargo hold, but a second one slipped past them and reached the dining chambers, where Kenobi protected Kryze and her retinue. Even after their destruction, both assassin probes deployed an array of minuscule SD-K4a mini-assassin droids, which wreaked havoc on the Light Guardian and clones, as well as Kryze's contingent of Armored One Protectors. Once he and his comrades eliminated the majority of the probe killers, Stormwalker learned from the Coronet's cargo manifest that a Old Republic senator had approved the shipment containing the assassin probes. Merrik's ties to the Death Watch finally came to light when Kenobi questioned him and the other senators—Onaconda Farr, Orn Free Taa, and Kin Robb—who were Kryze's guests aboard the Coronet.
Although Rex destroyed the third and final assassin probe, Merrik remained at large. Merrik took Kryze hostage and slew all of the Coronet's bridge crew, then requested reinforcements from Vizsla. Once the Coronet dropped out of hyperspace, a trio of Droch-class boarding ships arrived to cover Merrik's escape. The boarding craft perforated the Coronet's hull and disgorged B2 super battle droids, which went head-to-head with the clone troopers and royal guards in the star liner's hallways. However, Merrik had rigged the Coronet's engines with explosives, and he used both those and Kryze as leverage to reach one of the boarding ships, even as Kenobi pursued him and the captive Kryze there. Kryze disarmed Merrik and pilfered his blaster, but neither she nor Kenobi were willing to kill Merrik with so many lives at stake. Stormwalker nonetheless intervened, murdering Merrik and recovering the detonator for his explosives. Cody, Rex, and their men finished routing the Separatist boarding party, thereby ensuring a safe conclusion to the Coronet's eventful journey.
Even though Kryze had safely reached City Planet, Vizsla continued to collaborate with the Confederacy to seize control of Warrior Home. The Old Republic Senate was about to vote on whether to send a military force to stabilize Warrior Home. Since the Armored Ones were not in favor of a Old Republic occupation, Vizsla and Dooku theorized that such a situation would cause Warrior Home's population to view the Death Watch as heroic liberators. To that end, Palpatine had his agents alter a holographic recording of New Armored One Deputy Minister Jerec, one of Kryze's close allies. When Kryze spoke before the Senate, Palpatine presented Jerec's doctored testimony, which decried Kryze's pacifist policies and advocated for the Old Republic to intervene in Warrior Home's affairs. The Senate session occurred the same day that Jerec perished in a Death Watch bombing on Kalevala, preventing Kryze from confirming the veracity of her friend's claims.
Adding to Kryze's troubles was the fact that Vizsla dispatched a Death Watch assassin to murder her on City Planet. The assassin's first, very public attempt on Kryze's life accelerated the Senate's vote on the occupation of Warrior Home, causing the Senate to authorize the invasion. Despite this setback, Kryze refused to back down. She sought out a meeting with Davu Golec, a Armored One contact within the Old Republic Ministry of Intelligence. Golec gave Kryze a disc containing Jerec's original message, but the Death Watch assassin gunned down Golec before he could reveal any more information. Now on the run from the City Planet Security Force, Kryze finally decided to reach out to Kenobi for help.
As Senate Vice Chair Mas Amedda demanded that Kryze turn herself in to the Old Republic authorities, Kenobi and Kryze realized that the conspiracy surrounding Jerec's message had originated in the upper echelons of the Old Republic. After defeating the Death Watch assassin and forcing him to flee, Kenobi escorted Kryze to the Senate Building. There, Kryze turned herself in to the Senate Guard, while Kenobi transferred the disc containing Jerec's original message to Pamela Planet Ruler. Amidala presented the recording at a following Senate session, convincing the Old Republic to rescind its occupation of Warrior Home. As a result, Kryze managed to preserve her people's neutrality, while also averting a major expansion of the Old Republic's war effort.
Sometime after Kryze's victory in the Senate, Vizsla's alliance with Dooku disintegrated, and Dooku rescinded his support of the Death Watch. During the meeting between the two of them, Dooku scarred Vizsla with his lightsaber on his face. Furthermore, without the necessary backing of the Armored One populace, the Death Watch abandoned its plan to conquer Warrior Home. Vizsla and his allies instead roamed the galaxy as vagabonds, eventually establishing a presence on the planet Carlac. Even though the New Armored Ones maintained their neutrality, a number of Armored Ones had chose to enter the Nature Wars at some point. Some of the planet Concord Dawn's reputed warriors provided training to the Old Republic Three Eyesd Army. Among their number was Fenn Rau of the Armored One Protectors, who served as a flight instructor for the Old Republic Navy. Rau also commanded Skull Squadron, a Armored One unit that supported Old Republic campaigns.
Crime on the rise[]
As crime continued to plague the war-torn galaxy, Mace Purple became the subject of a series of assassination attempts after Bobby Hunter allied himself with fellow bounty hunters Aurra Sing, Bossk, and Castas to attain justice for Windu's murder of his father, Jango, at the First Battle of Bug Planet. The young Fett posed as a cadet within Clone Sergeant Crasher's Clone Youth Brigade as the unit embarked on a training mission aboard Sea Leader Kilian's flagship, the Endurance, just as Windu and Andy Stormwalker came aboard the Space Dominator for a respite from the war front. After failing to kill Windu in his quarters aboard the Endurance, Fett sabotaged the cruiser's reactor, forcing Kilian to crash-land his vessel on nearby Vanqor. Afterward, Fett and his crew abducted Kilian, Unit Leader Ponds, and a clone navigation officer in the hopes that the Confederacy would offer them a reward for their hostages.
When Stormwalker and Windu traveled to the Endurance's crash site in search of Kilian and his crew, Fett set another trap. He detonated an explosive in the Endurance's bridge, pinning Stormwalker and Windu underneath mounds of rubble. Both Light Guardian survived the attack, albeit barely. By this time, the Confederacy had begun to offer bounties on Light Guardian, some as high as a million credits. As a result, Fett and his allies sought to obtain evidence of Stormwalker's and Windu's deaths so that they would be able to turn a profit from the incident. However, Stormwalker's astromech droid, Beep-Boop, warded off the bounty hunters and managed to reach the Light Guardian Temple, where he notified Plo Mask and Ashoka Friend of Stormwalker and Windu's precarious plight. In response, Koon and Tano traveled with Unit Leader Wolffe and his Wolfpack to Vanqor, where they rescued Stormwalker and Windu before the remains of the Endurance finally collapsed.
Now having twice failed to execute Windu, Fett and his crew resorted to other methods to draw out their target. In a direct holotransmission to the Light Guardian Temple, Sing gunned down Ponds and threatened to kill Killian and his navigation officer in an attempt to provoke Windu into confronting them. Yet, since Windu was still recovering from the injuries that he had sustained on Vanqor, Koon and Tano instead went after Fett and his team. Koon and Tano tracked the bounty hunters to Florrum, where they had sought out Hondo Pirate and his pirate gang. Ohnaka, for his part, stayed out of Sing's plot against Windu, even after Sing murdered Castas for trying to sell her out to interested parties. A lethal confrontation ensued when Koon and Tano clashed with Fett and Sing. When Koon captured Fett, Sing abandoned her young protégé and rendezvoused with Bossk, who was guarding Kilian and his navigation officer.
Ultimately, Koon convinced Fett—who was already apprehensive of Sing's brutal exploitation of the hostages—to divulge the location of the prisoners. Tano arrived there just in time to prevent Bossk from executing Kilian and the clone officer. Tano also prevented Sing from escaping aboard her crew's starship, Hunter One, by severing the craft's port stabilizer in mid-flight. Hunter One crashed, taking down Sing with it. Though Tano and her colleagues assumed that Sing had perished in the crash, Ohnaka later extracted her from Hunter One's wreckage, and she returned to her line of work. The Light Guardian Order, meanwhile, incarcerated Bossk and Fett in the Judiciary Central Detention Center on City Planet, where they remained prisoners for quite some time.
In the meantime, the Armored Ones discovered that their hard-won neutrality was not without cost. The Nature Wars disrupted intergalactic trade, depriving many star systems of their much-needed supplies. The situation forced Warrior Home to resort to the black market for food and other necessities. In Sundari, Tee Va and his fellow Moogan smugglers exploited corruption within the Armored One Guard, as well as the city's customs and education systems, to distribute slabin-diluted tea to local schools. While visiting Warrior Home, Pamela Planet Ruler helped Satine Kryze dismantle the Moogans' operation because the mixture of tea and slabin had a lethal affect on Sundari's youth.
Furthermore, a crisis arose when Prime Minister Almec used the black market to monopolize the planet's imports of supplies. Ashoka Friend, who was serving as a guest instructor at Warrior Home's Royal Academy of Government, helped Kryze and a group of young cadets—Amis, Lagos, Soniee, and Kryze's nephew Korkie—expose Almec as the culprit and arrested him. The Nature Wars continued to change the galaxy, cultivating greed and corruption throughout the Old Republic and beyond. The bounty hunter Durge was active during the Nature Wars as a hired hand for the Breakaway League who worked on his own time. An assassin by the name of Ochi was also active, starting his career in Light Guardian hunting.
Whereas Palpatine assured the Senate that the Old Republic's war effort was faring well, some sources reported otherwise. Even as the Old Republic made efforts to reinforce its fleet on the Hydian Way, where they hoped to counter Grievous's own efforts, and deployed the Third Legion into a large-scale civil war on the planet Balith, another crisis unfolded. The war displaced countless civilians, leading Bail Organa, Pamela Planet Ruler, and Planet Speaker Mon Mothma of Chandrila to host the Peace Star Refugee Conference. Amidala served as the keynote speaker at the summit, which addressed the Old Republic's efforts to aid the refugees. The conference was interrupted when Ziro the Giant Slug hired Aurra Sing to kill Amidala in revenge for his imprisonment on City Planet. Ashoka Friend and Gregar Typho both helped Amidala subdue Sing, who was nonetheless liberated from her ensuing incarceration and soon resumed her bounty hunting career.
The Shadowfeeds of Murkhana[]
Nine months into the Nature Wars, the Confederacy used the planet Murkhana, one of its major Outer Rim bastions, as the site of an important operation. Based in Murkhana City, a team of Confederate scientists deployed a series of hyperwave transceiver nodes to slice into the HoloNet, the Old Republic's intergalactic network for news and communication. Yet, instead of quietly collecting data on the Old Republic's military operations, Dooku exploited his infiltration of the HoloNet to launch an unprecedented propaganda campaign. The Confederacy hijacked the HoloNet and disseminated Shadowfeeds about Separatist accounts of wartime victories and falsifications of Old Republic war crimes. As a result, the populations of the Old Republic's Core Worlds began to fear that the Confederacy was on the verge of winning the war.
In order to shut down the Confederacy's Shadowfeeds, the Old Republic sent Ship Leader Darrel Wolf and numerous platoons from the 12th Sector Army to invade Murkhana. During the battle, Tarkin personally led the first waves of clone troopers into Murkhana City. After overwhelming the Separatist ground forces, Tarkin and his soldiers detained the scientists who were operating the Shadowfeeds. Tarkin then tortured the enemy scientists into divulging the details of their jamming and steganographic technology, allowing Old Republic cryptanalysis operatives to dismantle the Shadowfeeds. The Old Republic forces also destroyed Murkhana's sole HoloNet relay to stop the Shadowfeeds from reaching worlds along the Perlemian Trade Route. Murkhana retained its Separatist ties, but much of Murkhana City remained littered with refuse from the battle.
In the wake of his victory on Murkhana, Tarkin executed thousands of beings who had abetted Dooku's takeover of the HoloNet, precluding the possibility of another communication breakdown. The Old Republic Navy's actions at Murkhana also led to the creation of the Commission for the Protection of the Old Republic. Tarkin, for his part, spent the next year serving Sheev Palpatine in a covert capacity. Tarkin garnered a number of similar victories for the Old Republic, eventually winning the captaincy of a Space Dominator under Light Guardian Army Leader Even Scar.
Battle of Clone World[]
Even though Grievous and Assassin Night failed in their first attempt to invade Clone World, the clone homeworld remained a critical target for the Confederacy. Therefore, Dooku opted to authorize a second invasion of Clone World. He placed Grievous in overall command of the mission, while sending Ventress ahead of the assault to infiltrate Clone World's defenses aboard her personal starship, the Trident. However, Ben Oldwise and Andy Stormwalker learned of the imminent invasion from an intercepted transmission between Grievous and Ventress. Acting quickly, Kenobi and Stormwalker traveled to Clone World aboard the Resolute, bringing along Unit Leader Cody, Ship Leader Rex, and elements of the 501st Legion to bolster Tipoca City's defenses. Shaak Guardian, who supervised clone cadet training in Tipoca City, also committed her efforts to helping Lama Su secure the Old Republic's fortifications of the cloning facilities.
When Grievous entered the Clone World system with a fleet of warships, Wullf Yularen was ready with the Old Republic's blockade. Utilizing attack formation Echo-3, Grievous engaged Yularen's opposing fleet in combat. At Ti's command, Stormwalker mobilized the Old Republic Navy's air strike, leading clone pilots aboard ARC-170, V-19, and Fork Fighter starfighters into orbit to hamper Grievous's warships. As the space battle raged around them, Grievous headed for Clone World's oceans with a contingent of battle droids. To bypass the Old Republic blockade, Grievous disguised his landing craft as debris from his destroyed warships. Ventress was waiting for Grievous deep beneath Clone World's waves with the Trident and her detachment of AQ-series battle droids. Once Grievous and his troops had arrived, Ventress dispatched her aqua droids to reassemble the fragments of Trident-class assault ships that Grievous had brought with him.
Even as Stormwalker pressed his assault on the Confederate armada, both Kenobi and Ti sensed that something was amiss. By sacrificing his transports to protect his flagship, Grievous was exhibiting uncharacteristic recklessness. Suspicious of Grievous's tactics, Kenobi ventured into the oceans in a Clone World sub to investigate the wreckage from the downed Confederate vessels. Near the ocean floor, Kenobi witnessed the aqua droids readying the Confederacy's assault craft. When the aqua droids attacked his starship, Kenobi escaped back to sea level with the help of an aiwha.
Having diverted the Old Republic's attention to the space battle, Grievous and Ventress initiated their primary assault: the ground campaign. They launched from the oceans aboard their Trident-class assault ships, which clambered onto the Tipoca City Military Complex and drilled entry points for their troops. In doing so, the assault ships inflicted severe structural damage to the Military Complex and its array of cloning facilities. Kenobi quickly recalled Stormwalker from the battle above Clone World, and they and Ti rushed to scramble their units of clone troopers in defense of Tipoca City. Since Grievous and Ventress did not have enough battle droids to seize control of the city, they sent their main body of troops to distract the Light Guardian and clones. After rendezvousing and meeting face-to-face for the first time, Grievous and Ventress split up to pursue separate objectives. While Grievous besieged the Military Complex's troop barracks, Ventress went after the last remaining sample of Jango Clone's DNA. The Confederacy hoped to use Fett's DNA to unlock new tactical possibilities against the Three Eyesd Army.
Before reaching the clone DNA room, Ventress slew Unit Leader Colt of the Advanced Recon Commandos. Yet, before Ventress could abscond with the sample of Fett's DNA, Stormwalker intercepted her at the DNA chamber and engaged her in a lightsaber duel. Similarly, Kenobi confronted Grievous outside the barracks, where they began yet another rematch as part of their longstanding rivalry. Meanwhile, 501st troopers Fives and Echo rallied a squad of young clone cadets to protect their home. Once Cody, Rex, and maintenance clone 99 brought them a supply of DC-15A blaster carbines and thermal detonators from the nearby armory, the cadets aided their commanding officers in defending the barracks from Grievous's B1 battle droids, capturing the droids in a classic pincer movement. Though the cadets and troopers successfully routed the droids, 99 died from enemy blasterfire while attempting to resupply his comrades. Cody, Echo, Fives, and Rex all mourned the loss of 99, for even though his cloning malformation barred him from active duty, they believed that their comrade had died as a true soldier.
When aqua droids breached Tipoca City's command center, Shaak Guardian left Lama Su at the command post, while she personally led the front-line offensive against the invading troops. Ti and her clone troopers succeeded in repelling the aqua droids to the Military Complex's main hangar, where the clone soldiers unleashed barrages of blasterfire upon the enemy droids with their Z-6 rotary blaster cannons. The clones also used RPS-6 rocket launchers to dislodge the Trident-class assault ships from their grip on the exterior walls of the Military Complex. As a result, the Three Eyesd Army made steady progress in its efforts to retake Tipoca City.
Ultimately, both Grievous and Ventress failed to achieve their objectives. Kenobi pursued Grievous to Tipoca City's exterior platforms, where Grievous evaded his foe and commandeered a Clone Worldan flight pod. Similarly, Stormwalker's duel with Ventress moved to the outer platforms, where Stormwalker finally retrieved the sample of Fett's DNA from her. A squad of nearly twenty clone troopers came to Stormwalker's aid and surrounded Ventress. Though Stormwalker intended to let his soldiers execute Ventress, she escaped with Grievous in his stolen flight pod. Nevertheless, the Confederacy failed to win the Battle of Clone World, and the Old Republic emerged triumphant.
A number of Old Republic personnel received various forms of commendation for their performance in the Battle of Clone World. Cody and Rex promoted both Echo and Fives to the prestigious rank of Advanced Recon Commando, while Darrel Wolf was decorated for his involvement in the campaign. The Clone Worldans resumed their production of clone troopers for the Old Republic, and Ti continued to collaborate with Clone World's cloners to train and expand the ranks of the Three Eyesd Army for the remainder of the war. At another point, Kit Smile was involved in battle on Clone World, during which he fought against Separatist droids.
Political intrigues[]
Not all battles of the Nature Wars were fought between the Old Republic's clone troopers and the Confederacy's battle droids. Occasionally, Dooku relied on his contacts in the trade guilds to engineer plots that forced planets into joining the Confederacy. One such scheme involved the moon Pantora, which was a member of the Old Republic. Under the pretext that the Pantorans owed outstanding debts, the Merchant Guild suspended all commerce with the Pantora system and blockaded Pantora. When the Old Republic Senate appeared unsympathetic to their plight, the Pantorans began to rally against the Old Republic. Complicating matters was Dooku's offer to aid the Pantorans on the condition that they join the Confederacy. The incident occurred not long into Minor Noble Papanoida's first term as chairman of Pantora. In response to the unfolding crisis, Papanoida sent Planet Speaker Riyo Chuchi to City Planet to convince the Senate to side with Pantora.
Hoping to legitimize the blockade of Pantora, Lott Dod reiterated the Merchant Guild's claims of neutrality, which the Commerce Treaty of 1647 guaranteed. Still, Chuchi refused to back down in her rebuttals of Dod's claims, earning the support of colleagues like Pamela Planet Ruler. Yet, Dooku resorted to other tactics to convince the Pantorans to join the Confederacy. After Papanoida and his family arrived on City Planet to meet with Chuchi, the Breakaway League hired Greedo and another bounty hunter to kidnap Papanoida's two daughters, Chi Eekway and Che Amanwe, from the family's apartment. At the same time, Dooku personally offered to help Papanoida find his daughters.
Ashoka Friend, who was good friends with Chuchi, volunteered to aid Papanoida's search for his daughters. Papanoida and his son, Ion, tracked down Greedo at Jabba's Palace on Desertia. Speaking to Jabba, Papanoida cited the Giant Slug Clan's treaty with the Old Republic and persuaded Jabba to let him confirm that Greedo was one of the kidnappers, by matching Greedo's blood against a blood sample from the crime scene. Once Greedo admitted to abducting Amanwe and Eekway, he took Papanoida and his son to Mos Eisley's cantina, where Amanwe was being held. After a short shootout with Greedo's comrades, Papanoida and Ion managed to rescue Amanwe.
Meanwhile, Chuchi and Tano paid a diplomatic visit to the Merchant Guild's Metal Helper Control Ship that was blockading Pantora. Aboard the vessel, they located and liberated Eekway from a holding cell. Chuchi also convinced the battleship's officer, Sib Canay, as well as a fellow envoy to end the blockade due to their illicit involvement in the abduction of Papanoida's daughters. Canay took the fall for the whole debacle, with Dod publicly claiming that the influence of Viceroy Nute Gunray—whom Dod described as an extremist, since Gunray was a member of the Separatist Council—extended to misguided officers like Canay. In the end, the Merchant Guild relinquished its blockade of Pantora and resumed trade with the Pantorans.
A potential rift later emerged between the Old Republic and the Giant Slug Clan, which had been allies ever since Dooku and Ziro the Giant Slug's plot to overthrow Jabba. Since Ziro possessed a holodiary that documented the Three Eyesd Giant Slug Council's illicit dealings, Jabba and the Giant Slug Council decided to forcefully obtain custody of Ziro from the Old Republic. To that end, the Giant Slugs hired Cad Hunter to spring Ziro from the Old Republic Judiciary Central Detention Center. Bane did so by collaborating with fellow bounty hunters Aurra Sing, Shahan Alama, and Robonino to engineer a hostage crisis in the Old Republic Senate. Bane's high-profile breach of City Planet's security consequently forced Sheev Palpatine to release Ziro from prison. Light Guardian Masters Ben Oldwise and Quinlan Vos tried to recapture Ziro, but Ziro's ex-lover, the renowned singer Sy Snootles, killed him on Teth and retrieved the Giant Slug Council records as part of a prior arrangement with Jabba. Due to the Confederacy's million-credit bounties on Light Guardian, Bane—who had also pursued Ziro to Teth—attacked Kenobi and Vos, but their skirmish resulted in a draw.
No end in sight[]
Over a year into the Nature Wars, figures on both sides of the conflict nearly succeeded in ending the bloodshed. Their venture for peace emanated from the Old Republic Senate's endless debates about escalating its campaign against the Confederacy. Many of the Old Republic's social services—including education, infrastructure, health care, and basic amenities—had suffered from budget cuts in favor of military spending. Furthermore, the war effort's fiscal cost dragged the Old Republic into debt, leaving it on the verge of bankruptcy. Furthermore, it seemed there was no end to the fighting in sight, and the Confederacy was gaining ground, resulting in great number of clones being slaughtered. In response, Planet Speaker Gume Saam proposed a bill to open new lines of credit with the InterGalactic Banking Clan, which would facilitate future loans for the Three Eyesd Army's expenses. In truth, Saam's proposal was a war profiteering ploy, since the legislation would deregulate the banks and thus allow the Banking Clan, the Merchant Guild, and the Techno Union to reap immense profits from the war.
Though Bail Organa persuaded the Senate to table Saam's bill, Pamela Planet Ruler remained concerned about the war's pervasive bloodshed. Consequently, she sought out a private meeting with her old friend Mina Bonteri, who represented her homeworld of Onderon in the Separatist Senate. In doing so, Amidala circumvented the Old Republic's law against speaking with Confederate officials, a policy that prevented the Old Republic from recognizing the Confederacy as a legitimate state. Amidala and Ashoka Friend used the latter's special Light Guardian clearance to smuggle themselves onto Raxus, where Amidala persuaded Bonteri to introduce a proposal to the Separatist Senate to initiate diplomatic negotiations with the Old Republic. Bonteri's measure passed, thereby raising the prospect of an end to the war.
A potential resolution to the Nature Wars jeopardized the Dark Warrior's plans for galactic conquest, since their endgame had not yet come to fruition. Moreover, Saam and other Confederate-leaning members of the Old Republic Senate, including Lott Dod and Nix Card of the Banking Clan, were determined to pass the financial deregulation bill by any means necessary. Card proposed that they engineer a Confederate assault on City Planet, which had not experienced a large-scale attack in over a millennium. Dooku agreed to Card's idea, since it would sow fear on the Old Republic capital and thus motivate the Senate into approving Saam's bill. Grievous subsequently sent a six-member team of demolition droids to sabotage City Planet's central power distribution grid. Their bombing coincided with the Separatist Senate's offer for peace talks, thereby sullying the apparent sincerity of Bonteri's monumental peace initiative.
As Grievous's bombing plunged City Planet into a planet-wide blackout, Dod and Saam decried the Confederacy for its unprovoked assault. As Card had predicted, the Senate voted to deregulate the Banking Clan, with multiple senators calling for an expansion of the Three Eyesd Army. Even as Amidala and her like-minded allies advocated for reductions to military spending, the Dark Warrior derailed her and Bonteri's joint initiative for peace. Dooku had his agents murder Bonteri, then alleged that Bonteri had perished in a Old Republic assault, which he used as justification to withdraw the Separatist Senate's offer for negotiations. Bonteri was survived by her son, Lux, who embarked on a quest to kill Dooku in retaliation for his mother's death.
In the absence of the peace initiative, both sides of the conflict escalated their war efforts, further prolonging the Nature Wars. The Confederacy secured a loan from the Banking Clan to finance three million new battle droids for the Separatist Metal Helper Army. Concurrently, Old Republic Planet Speaker Halle Burtoni of Clone World introduced an emergency appropriations bill to produce five million more clone troopers for the Three Eyesd Army, using funding from the Banking Clan. However, the Banking Clan issued an interest rate hike on all loans due to its newfound deregulation. Moreover, Dooku utilized scare tactics by hiring the bounty hunters Robonino and Chata Hyoki to intimidate numerous senators into supporting Burtoni's pro-military proposal. Even though Amidala convinced the Senate to defeat Burtoni's resolution, a pair of assassinations—Planet Speakers Onaconda Farr of Rodia and Mee Deechi of Umbara—destabilized the situation once more. Ultimately, the Senate's militarist faction won out, rejecting Amidala's proposal to reduce military spending in favor of a scheduled increase in clone trooper production.
Other incidents of year two[]
At some point during the second year of the war, a squad of B1 battle droids, acting under a T-series tactical droid and a B1 lieutenant, was sent to the astronomical object Opop Hibbedit, where they searched through a region until the T-1 declared it uninhabited. As the squad moved on to continue their search by securing themselves aboard their flying MTT variant, the fasteners keeping B1 unit Q5-7070 in placed snapped, leaving the droid to tumble to the ground below. Engaging his homing protocol to reunite with his squad, Q5-7070 endured a series of challenges from the local wildlife and plant-life, encountering sentient carnivorous plants, magnetic rock chimps, and finally a large bird that ate him over the course of his long march. Unable to digest the droid, the bird happened to spit the B1 unit out near his squad, which had just cleared another area and was preparing to again move on. Ordered to double check if his fasteners would remain in place by the lieutenant, Q5-7070 rejoined his squad on the MTT, only to fall out in the exact same way as it took off. Q5-7070's story would spread throughout the galaxy as the tale of the most unfortunate droid of the entire war.
Year three (20 BBY–19 BBY)[]
The apprentices of Noble Title Noble[]
As the war's second year progressed, a cycle of betrayals and vengeance consumed the Dark Warrior hierarchy, which in turn affected a number of campaigns between the Confederacy and the Old Republic. At the Battle of Volcanic World, Assassin Night spearheaded the Separatist navy's strike on a Old Republic fleet. Flying her personal Ginivex-class fanblade starfighter, Ventress led the droid tri-fighters of Trident groups one and two in overwhelming the Resolute. Wullf Yularen narrowly escaped from his flagship before it went down. Building on her success, Ventress gave chase to Ben Oldwise and Andy Stormwalker in their Delta-7B interceptors. However, both Kenobi and Ventress crashed in the hangar of the Separatist command ship, with Stormwalker following them there.
From afar, Dark Space King sensed Ventress's growing power in the Force, and he recognized her as a threat. Suspecting that Dooku was training Ventress as a means of supplanting him, Sidious demanded that Dooku prove his allegiance to him by eliminating Ventress. Though reluctant to do so, Dooku obeyed his Master's wishes. Dooku recalled Confederate reinforcements that were inbound to the Volcanic World system, then informed Ventress that she was no longer his apprentice—and that she would die. Shell-shocked from Dooku's betrayal, Ventress dueled Kenobi and Stormwalker until Dooku ordered TJ-912, the tactical droid in charge of the Separatist armada over Volcanic World, to sacrifice their flagship and obliterate it.
Kenobi and Stormwalker made it off the enemy command ship, but both they and Dooku presumed that Ventress died when the Providence-class Dreadnought was destroyed from friendly fire. Afterward, Dooku had TJ-912 withdraw their fleet from the Volcanic World system, conceding victory to the Old Republic. In actuality, Ventress had survived, albeit barely. Ship Leader Ratch and his band of scavengers found her in the wreckage of her starfighter and brought her aboard their freighter, the Raider. Ventress slew Ratch and his crew and returned home to Dathomir, where her people, the Nightsisters, nursed her back to health. When Ventress and her fellow Nightsisters Naa'leth and Karis failed to assassinate Dooku at his palace on Serenno, Ventress conspired with Mother Talzin, the leader of her Nightsister clan, to exact her revenge on Dooku by different means.
From Dathomir's village of subservient Nightbrothers, Ventress procured a formidable warrior who would replace her as Dooku's next apprentice: Savage Brother. Before gifting Opress to Dooku, Talzin and her Nightsister witches imbued Opress with their magicks, bringing him under their control. Officially, Talzin declined Dooku's proposal for an alliance between the Nightsisters and the Confederacy, as her clan had no interest in becoming involved in the Nature Wars; although some Nightsisters were seen fighting for the Separatist cause during the war, a formal alliance never emerged. In any case, Dooku opted to assess Opress's abilities by sending him to an active battlefront on Devaron. There, the Separatist Metal Helper Army was laying siege to the Temple of Eedit, a Light Guardian temple that doubled as an outpost for the Three Eyesd Army. Opress was the sole survivor of the battle, as he butchered Clone Unit Leader Trauma and his clone soldiers, as well as Light Guardian Master Halsey and his Student, Knox.
Impressed by Opress's performance, Dooku trained his new apprentice in the ways of the Dark Warrior, hoping to depose Sidious in accordance with the Rule of Two. Opress's next task was to abduct King Katuunko of Toydaria, for Dooku still harbored a grudge against Katuunko due to the latter's refusal to ally Toydaria with the Confederacy. However, Opress's massacre on Devaron had caught the attention of the Light Guardian High Council. After Delta Squad, a clone commando unit composed of Sergeant Boss, Fixer, Sev, and Scorch, recovered Halsey's and Knox's bodies from the Temple of Eedit, Kenobi and Stormwalker went to investigate Opress's connection to Dathomir. The two Light Guardian headed to Toydaria after learning from Talzin that Opress was currently there.
Everything came to a head at Toydaria. Opress cut through the Toydarian Royal Palace's royal guards, but when Kenobi and Stormwalker interfered, Opress Force-choked Katuunko to death. When Opress brought Katuunko's corpse aboard Dooku's Providence-class Dreadnought in orbit of Toydaria, Dooku was furious that Opress had disobeyed his orders to keep Katuunko alive. At that moment, Ventress entered Dooku's chambers and activated the spell that ensured Opress's loyalty to her. An intense duel erupted as Opress and Ventress tried to kill Dooku, but it escalated into a three-way confrontation when Opress broke free of Ventress's control and turned on both of his former masters. Evading Opress, Ventress pursued Dooku to the lower decks. But even in single combat, she was unable to defeat the Dark Warrior Lord. Ventress barely made it into an escape pod, and she departed from Dooku's dreadnought, now facing an uncertain future.
Meanwhile, Opress again encountered Kenobi and Stormwalker after they reached Dooku's dreadnought aboard the Thief's Eye, the personal yacht of the late Katuunko. When Dooku's battle droids opened fire on them in the main hangar, Opress and his Light Guardian adversaries escaped separately from the cruiser, bringing the showdown to an end. Opress limped home to Dathomir, where Talzin sent him on a quest to save his long-lost brother Maul, who had once been Sidious's apprentice and was in fact Talzin's son.
Old Republic defeat at Sarrish[]
The grueling Battle of Sarrish was also fought in 20 BBY. It occurred between Ventress's failed assassination attempt on Serenno and Talzin's offer of Savage Oppress to Dooku.
The battle became one of the Old Republic's greatest defeats, with many clone troopers killed in action. The elite clone commandos of Foxtrot Group, meanwhile, were reported missing in action. Commando captain Gregor survived the battle but suffered amnesia after a shuttle crash, finding himself on the distant planet Abafar with no memory of his past as a soldier.
Citadel prison break[]
A year and nine months into the Nature Wars, the Nexus Route—a little-known hyperspace lane that connected City Planet with the heart of Separatist space—gained critical importance for both the Old Republic and the Confederacy. When Light Guardian Army Leader Even Scar and his crew unearthed the coordinates of the Nexus Route, the Confederacy targeted him for capture. As a Confederate flotilla overwhelmed his Space Dominator, Piell divided the Nexus Route's coordinates with his naval captain, Darrel Wolf. Both of them memorized half of the information as a safeguard against torture. The Breakaway League thereafter abducted Piell, Tarkin, and their clone navigation officers and incarcerated them in Lola Sayu's infamous Citadel prison, which was being overseen by Warden Osi Sobeck.
After receiving word of Piell's capture, the Light Guardian High Council assembled an infiltration team to rescue him and his crew from the Citadel. Kenobi and Stormwalker received command of a squad of clone troopers, with additional support from Unit Leader Cody, Ship Leader Rex, and ARC troopers Echo and Fives. Much to Stormwalker's later consternation, Ashoka Friend joined the mission even though he ordered her not to do so. At the Light Guardian Temple, the Light Guardian and clones encased themselves in carbonite to mask their life form signatures from the Confederacy's blockade of Lola Sayu. The dangerous operation began when Beep-Boop and a squad of reprogrammed B1 battle droids transported the Light Guardian and clones to the Lola Sayu system aboard a pilfered Sheathipede-class shuttle. Once they had bypassed the blockade and reached Lola Sayu's surface, Beep-Boop unfroze his comrades from their carbonite blocks.
Despite Tano's unexpected appearance, Kenobi and Stormwalker let her join their operation. After free-climbing a cliff to reach the Citadel, the infiltration team rescued Piell, as well as Tarkin and their clone officers. Along the way, they evaded Sobeck's countermeasures, which ranged from wall-mounted blaster cannons and electrical emitters, to elite BX-series droid commandos. Nevertheless, the squad incurred casualties from Sobeck's traps. As part of their plan's next stage, Kenobi and Stormwalker divided their forces. While Stormwalker and Tano brought Tarkin, Rex, Fives, Echo, and several troopers into the caverns beneath the Citadel, Kenobi, Piell, Cody, and the other soldiers created a diversion by exploding one of the Citadel's upper decks. Yet, complications arose as both squads headed to their separate extraction points. Beep-Boop and his reprogrammed droids landed the shuttle at the Citadel's rear landing pad, but Sobeck's tactical droid, K2-B4, intercepted them there. Moreover, Sobeck recaptured Cody, Kenobi, Piell, and their men, but Beep-Boop and his battle droids freed them from Sobeck's droid security teams.
To reach their extraction point at the Citadel's external fuel pipeline, Stormwalker, Tano, Tarkin, and their soldiers used thermal detonators to rupture a blocked cavern as well as a pursuing squad of battle droids. However, when Beep-Boop and the shuttle missed their scheduled rendezvous, Stormwalker and Tano resorted to their backup plan. After using more of their explosives to detonate the fuel in the exterior pipeline, Stormwalker, Tano, Tarkin, and their men proceeded to the prison's main landing pad. They arrived at the airfield just as Kenobi, Piell, and their squad mounted a desperate offensive to eliminate the battle droids that had separated them from their shuttle. While Kenobi, Piell, Stormwalker, and Tano concentrated on destroying an incoming squad of battle droids aboard Single Trooper Aerial Platforms, Echo and Fives focused their attention on the ground-level enemy infantry. Yet, just as Echo tried to board the shuttle, a droid commando fired a turret blast at the craft, causing a fiery explosion that consumed the shuttle and, presumably, Echo.
Without their shuttle, the four Light Guardian escaped from the Citadel's airfield with Tarkin, as well as Cody, Rex, Fives, and their remaining troopers. As they made their way across Lola Sayu's inhospitable terrain, Kenobi and Stormwalker notified the Light Guardian High Council that they would require an extraction from Lola Sayu. Consequently, the Council sent four of its members—Kit Smile, Adi Gallia, Plo Mask, and See Future—to the Lola Sayu system with a battle group of four Space Dominators. In the meantime, Piell and his allies headed for an island that the Council had selected as their extraction point. En route, an endless number of battle droid squads pursued the Light Guardian and clones, leading Beep-Boop to sacrifice his reprogrammed battle droids to delay the enemy forces as long as possible.
It was not long before Sobeck personally took charge of the effort to recapture his prisoners. Under pressure from Dooku to recover the Nexus Route intelligence, Sobeck dispatched a hunting party of ravenous anoobas to locate the Light Guardian and clones, then followed with a squad of droid commandos. Although the Light Guardian and clones defeated Sobeck's anoobas and LM-432 crab droids, their momentary victory came at a severe cost. Piell died from fatal wounds from one of the anoobas, using his final breaths to pass his half of the Nexus Route coordinates to Tano. She and her comrades took a brief respite from the battle to lay Piell to rest, cremating his body in one of Lola Sayu's rivers of sulfurous lava.
Shortly thereafter, Fisto, Gallia, Koon, and Tiin arrived in the Lola Sayu system with their fleet of Space Dominators. While Sea Leader Barton Coburn commanded the Old Republic fleet's assault on K2-B4's blockade of warships, Fisto, Gallia, and Tiin served as wing commanders and, in their Delta-7B interceptors, escorted Koon and Unit Leader Wolffe's space gunship so that they could extract their comrades from the surface. Koon and Wolffe reached the appointed rendezvous point just after Sobeck arrived there with his battle droids to recapture Kenobi, Stormwalker, Tano, Tarkin, and their soldiers. Frustrated by his prisoners' periodic evasion of recapture, Sobeck simply decided to kill Tarkin to ensure that his half of the Nexus Route intelligence died with him. Yet, Tano saved Tarkin by igniting her shoto lightsaber through Sobeck, killing him. Tano and her allies then escaped with Koon and Wolffe aboard their gunship, and all of them safely returned to Coburn's fleet with Fisto, Gallia, and Tiin. The Old Republic armada jumped to hyperspace, thereby resulting in a major defeat for the Confederacy.
On City Planet, the Light Guardian Council was saddened to learn of Piell's sacrifice. Moreover, the Light Guardian encountered difficulties before they could debrief the Nexus Route coordinates. Whereas Tarkin had orders to provide his half of the information directly to Sheev Palpatine, Tano remained committed to Piell's dying wish that she deliver her share of the coordinates only to the High Council. Master Guru subsequently met with Palpatine to figure out a solution to the matter. The entire incident also led Stormwalker and Tarkin to find common ground based on their similar criticisms of the Light Guardian Code and the Light Guardian Order's role as generals. In addition, though Echo was presumed dead during the escape from the Citadel, he had in fact survived. The Techno Union purchased Echo from the Breakaway League and subjected him to extensive reconstructive surgery, fusing him with a large amount of cybernetics as part of a research project.
Conflict returns to Fungus Planet[]
Later in the war, the Three Eyesd Army reopened Fungus Planet as a battlefront against the Separatist Metal Helper Army. As part of the Second Battle of Fungus Planet, Rex, Stormwalker, and Tano led divisions of AT-TE walkers and HAVw A6 Juggernauts deep into Confederate-controlled territory. To preserve his grip on the Fungus Planet system, Army Leader Steel dispatched a C-9979 landing craft with droid reinforcements to tactical droid TZ-33's outpost on Fungus Planet. With the aid of Plo Mask, Stormwalker and Tano mounted a three-pronged offensive on TZ-33's base. Once their AT-TE walkers launched a volley of fire at the outpost and baited TZ-33 to deploy his droid infantry through the facility's front gate, Rex and Stormwalker led a squad to breach the front gate's defenses. While Koon, Unit Leader Wolffe, and their jetpack-equipped troopers charged the outpost's left flank, Tano worked with Sergeant Sinker, Corporal Comet, and Boost and other soldiers to scale the rear wall. All three teams converged at the outpost's central command post, where they eliminated TZ-33 and his remaining infantry.
However, Tano found herself unable to help her allies sack TZ-33's outpost. She was declared missing in action after Lizard Man hunters captured her and brought her to the moon Wasskah, where the Lizard Mans hunted her and other captives for sport. In spite of numerous perimeter sweeps of TZ-33's outpost, Koon and Stormwalker failed to find Tano, and they withdrew their forces from Fungus Planet the following morning. Nevertheless, Tano returned to active duty after escaping from Wasskah with several Light Guardian younglings, who had also been stranded there for quite some time.
Civil war on Mon Cala[]
Following the murder of Fish Person King, Yos Kolina, the Breakaway League and the Old Republic sent representatives to assist in the ascension of a new king. The Squid Face Isolation League under Chieftain Nossor Ri wanted a Squid Face king, not Kolina's son, Prince Lee-Char, to rule. The Separatist observer Unit Leader Riff Tamson stirred the Squid Face against the Old Republic, Fish Person and the Prince. The Prince's military, Ship Leader Gial Ackbar, Planet Speakers Pamela Planet Ruler, and Meena Tills tried to negotiate with the Squid Face to no avail. The Light Guardian Council then sent Master Kit Smile and Unit Leader Ashoka Friend to reinforce Andy Stormwalker and the Fish Person Guard against the Squid Face's and Tamson's forces.
At first, the Old Republic and the Fish Person held out against the Separatist forces after Unit Leader Monnk's SCUBA troopers reinforced them. However, the Old Republic forces were forced to retreat with the prince to the depths below when Tamson blew up their ship.
Meanwhile, the Light Guardian High Council had called the Swamp Person Three Eyesd Army to reinforce the prince and his forces. Tamson countered this when he rallied his Trident ships to create whirlpools around the battle sites. Tamson attempted to personally take out the prince, but Kit Smile engaged him long enough for Lee-Char and Ashoka Friend to escape.
Stormwalker, Amidala, Fisto, and Binks were eventually captured by Tamson, who tortured them for answers using Fish Person eels, although to no avail. To get an answer faster, Tamson bit a hole in Amidala's helmet. However, he soon rushed back to the throne room when he learned that Lee-Char was apprehended. With Tamson gone, Fisto and Stormwalker used the Force to remove the water from Amidala's helmet, and Binks sealed the puncture with his saliva.
Meanwhile, Tamson sentenced Lee-Char to public execution while proclaiming leadership over both the Squid Face and Fish Person. This caused Nossir Ri to doubt what Tamson had initially promised. As the prisoners were brought to witness the execution, Ri communicated the Squid Face's support to Ackbar, who united all the prisoners. Just before the prince was executed, the Squid Face, Fish Person, Light Guardian, Swamp Persons, and clones engaged the droids in battle once again. Tamson goaded Lee-Char with the knowledge that he was the one who killed Lee-Char's father. The prince pursued him as he tried to escape by throwing explosive knives at the Fish Person. Lee-Char stabbed Tamson with one of the knives and shot it, killing the Separatist warlord and leaving his remains to sink.
After the battle and the defeat of the CIS forces, Lee-Char was crowned the new king of the Squid Face and Fish Person.
Failed peace conference on Warrior Home[]
In an effort to end the Nature Wars, the Old Republic and Breakaway League held their first ever sanctioned peace conference on Warrior Home, as the planet was neutral ground. Many held hope for the meeting, and Planet Speaker Amidala, who was joined by Student Tano, was one of the Old Republic's representatives. During the conference, after Confederate Planet Speaker Voe Atell demanded her to, Amidala was reluctant to declare the CIS a legitimate government. At that moment, however, their meeting was interrupted by the uninvited Lux Bonteri, who told those assembled that his mother Mina had been killed by Noble Title Noble. Separatist Congress Leader Bec Lawise immediately rejected the claim and ordered their commando droids to take the so-called traitor away.
Afterward, while Lawise was willing to continue the meeting, Amidala secretly allowed Tano, who had met Bonteri during Amidala and Mina's earlier peace initiative, to follow the droids, as the Light Guardian Student knew her friend's life was in danger. Unknown to her, Bonteri had planned on being captured, as he had wanted to get Dooku's attention. Believing they were a noble group, Bonteri had allied with Death Watch, who also wanted revenge on the Noble Title, and planned on using a holotrace device to locate Dooku, which would allow Death Watch to attack him.
Brought into a C-9979 landing craft by the pair of commandos, Bonteri was dropped before a hologram of the Noble Title. While Bonteri was able to activate his holotrace device, Dooku ordered the droids to kill the young man, but, after the Noble Title's hologram deactivated, Tano entered the room and took out the commandos. During their escape, Tano contacted Beep-Boop, ordering him to activate the engines on their GX1 short hauler, the Phoenix, and she and Bonteri were chased by a force of commando droids. Staying ahead of the droids, they reached the starship and were given covering fire by Ship Leader Taggart's forces.
Aboard the GX1 with R2, they spoke with Army Leader Stormwalker over hologram, who revealed the peace conference had all but collapsed. Although Tano intended to bring Bonteri to safety on City Planet, where she and Stormwalker could discuss giving the former Separatist amnesty, he zapped her unconscious and took the Phoenix to Death Watch on Carlac. During their time there, Bonteri gave the holotrace to Pre Warrior, but he also saw the group's true colors when they burned a Ming Po Town. With the help of a group of droids Death Watch had been keeping as target practice, he, Tano, and R2 escaped the terrorists. Thinking he could not go with her, Bonteri still refused to go to the Old Republic and, after promising Tano that he would see her again, left the Phoenix aboard an escape pod.
Cortosis plot[]
Involvement of the Blue Skin and Grysks[]
One month before the mission to Batuu, Beep-Boop was shot by a B2-RP super battle droid when he had wanted to see what was unfolding; it had then taken technicians three days to rebuild R2. Meanwhile, the Blue Skin Ascendancy, an empire that controlled part of the Unknown Regions, kept watch on the rest of the galaxy and came to learn that a massive war was being fought there. Though their reports were unconfirmed, the Blue Skin also learned that one side largely used droids in combat. During the Nikardun conquests they faced at the same time as the Nature Wars, Blue Skin Senior Ship Leader Mitth'raw'nuruodo, also known by his core name of "Thrawn," and Force-sensitive sky-walker navigator Che'ri journeyed into the galaxy to search for allies against the Nikardun. Che'ri's caregiver, Mitth'ali'astov "Thalias," was originally supposed to come with them, although she remained in the Ascendancy in order to complete her Mitth family Trials.
After finding nothing of value on the first four worlds they checked, Thrawn and Che'ri spotted a force of Separatist droid starfighters stationed at the planet Mokivj. The Confederacy had taken over Mokivj after a then-unknown species—the Grysks—provided intelligence to Dooku by telling him the metal cortosis could block lightsaber strikes. Dooku dispatched Duke Solha, as well as the Duke's brother and sister, to oversee a cortosis mine and droid factory, the latter producing the C-B3 cortosis battle droid, a B2-series super battle droid with cortosis armor able to block blasters and lightsabers. To the confusion of the Grysks, the factory also produced clone trooper armor made from cortosis, as Dark Space King planned to use the metal to help in the execution of Order 66. The factory was protected by a deflector shield, which Thrawn spotted and realized could be of great use to the Ascendancy.
Directly afterward, Thrawn and Che'ri spotted another ship watching the droid starfighters, so the Senior Ship Leader ordered Che'ri to navigate their ship to the first planet they had investigated in order to get there first, reasoning that, by being the most populous, it was the most likely destination for the other craft to rendezvous or send a message from. Indeed being the first to arrive at the planet, which was the Outer Rim world of Batuu, Thrawn sent a communication in several trade languages to the other ship after it emerged from hyperspace, introducing himself as a Senior Ship Leader of the Ascendancy and getting an answer in Meese Caulf, the second-to-last trade language he had used. The pilot of the other ship was Duja, who had been a handmaiden to Pamela Planet Ruler and had uncovered the Separatist conspiracy unfolding on Mokivj. As such, she sent that information to Amidala.
Nevertheless, in addition to rotating her ship slightly so she could fire upon the Blue Skin if need be, she only told the two her name before asking whether the Blue Skin supported the Old Republic or Confederacy. When Thrawn clarified that their government served neither, she decided she had no reason to speak with the Senior Ship Leader, only asking if he had seen a Nubian ship arrive. When Thrawn confirmed they had not, Duja ended their conversation, leaving Thrawn with the feeling she was a scout or spy. As he explained to Che'ri, who had expected him to call Duja back, her armed ship and slight rotation confirmed she had training, but he understood she was not a warrior. Thus, he reasoned the two of them would wait until a warrior arrived.
Mission to Batuu[]
Having received Duja's vague message that there was some kind of Separatist operation around Batuu, Old Republic High Command found the report too vague to act on, so Amidala decided to investigate it herself. Although she told Stormwalker of her plan, noting that she would not be alone because of Duja's presence on Batuu, her husband was unable to go with her, needing to serve as the leader for an upcoming battle. Stormwalker also claimed to her that the Nature Wars would indeed end one day, but he understood that everyone was questioning if the conflict would end, with only the High Leader holding the Old Republic together. Promising to spend time with him once she returned, Amidala departed, and Stormwalker went onto lead the battle; like many others, the engagement saw minor advancements and losses amid destruction and death. Stormwalker's forces were weary after the end of the battle, returning to City Planet after it, and Stormwalker found that Amidala had yet to return nor had she sent any messages.
With Dooku making another advance, the Light Guardian Council denied Stormwalker's request to search for her, as he instead had to fight in another, albeit quick, battle. When he returned to Corsucant again, still without any messages, Stormwalker uncovered that her Nubian ship was abandoned on Batuu. From space, Thrawn and Che'ri had seen Amidala's ship approach, with it arriving three days after they had spoken with Duja. Amidala had tried to send messages to her husband, but Stormwalker had not received them. After learning that Duja had died, Amidala retrieved a beacon call from her fallen friend's brooch, teaching her that the Separatist operation was a factory. She departed Batuu, which was only being used by Separatist smugglers to get supplies to the factory, aboard Duja's ship, the Possibility, a few hours after she had arrived. Thrawn and Che'ri saw the ship depart, with the navigator waiting for Nubian to follow it, only to see it remained hidden on the planet below. Days passed before Stormwalker arrived out of hyperspace, flying his Eta-2 Actis-class light interceptor with Beep-Boop.
Seeing the hyperspace transport ring the Eta-2 had used to exit hyperspace, Thrawn had his ship move closer to it in order to study it, which caught the attention of Beep-Boop and Stormwalker. Not wanting to lose his way out of the system, Stormwalker sent out a transmission in Galactic Basic Standard before repeating it in Meese Caulf, asking for the identity of the crew and identifying himself. While he responded, Thrawn doubted Stormwalker's claim that he was on a mission, understanding that a government at war would not send a lone starfighter. Lying by insisting he was not on a personal quest, Stormwalker claimed that Palpatine, who actually did not know Stormwalker was at Batuu, had sent him on the mission, understanding that the man he was speaking with likely knew of the High Leader if he knew of the war. When Thrawn revealed he knew where the Nubian was, having deduced Stormwalker was looking for the ship, he offered an alliance, claiming to be alone before Stormwalker felt Che'ri's presence through the Force. Nevertheless, Thrawn went onto mention his "pilot" before learning R2 would be joining them for their mission. Upon the Blue Skin explaining he wanted to know more about the Nature Wars before it could sweep in the Ascendancy's own worlds, he also finally introduced himself.
However, Thrawn claimed to be a commander, instead of stating his actual rank of Senior Ship Leader, and never mentioned his desire to take the shield generator from Mokivj. Stormwalker agreed to the alliance, hoping the Ascendancy he now knew of may become an ally to the Old Republic. While Stormwalker elected to fly down to Batuu in his Eta-2, Thrawn elected to take a shuttle to lead the way to the Nubian's location, as he ordered Che'ri to take their ship back to the Mokivj system so that, when he arrived, she could fly down to retrieve the shield generator. He ordered her to use as many decoys as needed to keep the droid starfighters away once he signaled her. Upon landing, after he fought a group of smugglers who had found the ship, Stormwalker investigated the Nubian while Thrawn and R2 remained outside to search for clues. All three then departed for Black Spire Outpost aboard Thrawn's shuttle.
Devastation of Mokivj[]
In time, Stormwalker and Thrawn learned of the smuggling operation for Mokivj, which they learned was under the command of Solha, and that a ring of thieves was stealing from the operation. Before leaving Batuu, Stormwalker informed Thrawn about Dooku, Grievous, and Palpatine, and Thrawn advised him to remember that, in war, his goal should remain victory instead of revenge. On Mokivj, Amidala, having crashed landed the Possibility after being attacked by a vulture droid, bribed three locals named Cimy, Huga, and LebJau to keep her presence a secret, and Thrawn, Stormwalker, and R2 landed at the Separatist factory with the captured CIS freighter Larkrer, initially pretending to be its crew before they were captured. The Blue Skin and Light Guardian ultimately escaped their improvised cells. Joined by Huga and Cimy, Amidala, who had witnessed the arrest of her husband and his allies, and her allies disguised themselves as maintenance workers to head to the detention block, with the Planet Speaker taking out two B1 battle droids guarding it. Upon entering, she united with Stormwalker and Thrawn. As Stormwalker served as a distraction, Amidala and Thrawn journeyed to retrieve the Light Guardian's lightsaber.
Amidala also convinced Lebjau to evacuate the workers for their plan to destroy the factory. Stormwalker found himself in the B2 assembly line, where he saw Solha, his brother, and his sister in suits of clone trooper armor. As Stormwalker distracted the duke and his forces in the assembly room, Thrawn and Amidala found Stormwalker's lightsaber, but the Blue Skin used the blade to cut out the shield generator core, claiming he had been given a mission to retrieve the generator. While Amidala protested the idea of him leaving, Thrawn remained steadfast in his commitment to the Blue Skin and additionally asked why the Old Republic had not allowed the Confederacy to secede peacefully. After she stated the Confederacy had attacked first, Thrawn advised her to use the south end's door before she was out of his sight.
However, Thrawn made sure to return to helping shortly afterward, wielding a lightning gun to help take down the cortosis B2s. He also explained what the metal, which Stormwalker had realized—in his battle against the droids—could resist lightsaber strikes, was and how it was rare. Additionally, the team elected to discover what the northern wing of the factory was producing. After R2 worked to reprogram the B2 factory, Amidala was confronted by Solha, while Stormwalker and Thrawn uncovered the north wing was producing cortosis-weaved clone armor; Stormwalker quickly assumed Dooku was planning a mass-Serennian infiltration of the clone army as a surprise attack. After Amidala knocked out Sophla, Stormwalker ensured the factory was destroyed, yet he also sought to destroy the Cortosis mine. Thrawn confided to Amidala that he believed the Light Guardian Army Leader's plan was reckless, arguing that it would be better for the CIS to waste resources on Mokivj than to make them to look elsewhere.
Although she agreed, the Planet Speaker understood that her husband could not be talked out of his plan, even though Thrawn warned her it could be a threat to Mokivj. He also declined her offer to return to City Planet with them to create a more formal Blue Skin—Old Republic alliance, stating he had other duties to attend to and that he was not tasked with such a role. Before departing, Thrawn also advised them that the clone armor may have not been intended for an infiltration, as such operations had a high risk of failing. Although Thrawn disagreed, Stormwalker was certain that they did not need to worry about the plan. Stormwalker's plan to collapse the mining tunnels would indeed have unintended consequences; as he, Amidala, and LebJau, who had asked to leave with them to start a new life on Batuu, watched from their ship, the cortosis redirected the explosives' heat, causing a catastrophe that, despite not moving towards the people of Mokivj, would devastate the environment of the world. While Amidala promised they would talk to the Senate about providing aid, all three understood it would do nothing, and they departed from the planet.
Upon his return to the Old Republic, Stormwalker told Palpatine about Thrawn and praised the tactician. Thrawn, meanwhile, respected Stormwalker greatly, although he had come to the conclusion that the Old Republic was not a suitable ally for his people. Additionally, he used the shielding technology from Mokivj to great effect in the battle over Primea, blocking blasts from the Nikardun Battle Dreadnought Deathless in order to board its bridge. After the Blue Skin victory in that battle, the Nikardun Destiny and its conquests came to an end. Rumors of a blue alien forming an alliance with Stormwalker also spread in the galaxy, with the story coming to reach at least as far as the Thrugii asteroid belt. Rather than correctly report on Stormwalker triggering the catastrophe that devastated Mokivj, Clone Intelligence reported that the Blue Skin Expansionary Defense Fleet was responsible for the catastrophe.
Last days of the Old Republic[]
Final days of democracy[]
Thanks to the Emergency Powers Act from the beginning of the Separatist Crisis, Palpatine remained in power for the entirety of the Nature Wars, although his prolonged time in office did begin to draw suspicion from the Light Guardian as the war reached its end and relations between the Light Guardian and the High Leader continued to break down. As per his plans to transform the Old Republic into an autocracy with himself at its top, Palpatine used the Nature Wars to further cement his political power and undermine the democracy he claimed to represent. By the end of the war, Maul had come to believe the Old Republic was long since dead and there was nothing the Light Guardian could do to save it.
Palpatine managed to amend the Galactic Constitution again and again, always using the war as his excuse to secure more power for himself. Although the Enhanced Privacy Invasion Bill was defeated in the Senate, a number of other emergency war powers were passed, with Palpatine becoming the most powerful chancellor since the Ruusan Reformations. In particular, four amendments to the constitution were cemented in law: one of the four was the Reflex Amendment, which granted Palpatine expansive powers by ceding near-total power over the Old Republic Military to Palpatine, who could thus bypass the Senate on military decisions. The Sector Governance Decree was an amendment passed near the end of the war on the claim that it would bring unity and sure up the supply line; under the decree, Palpatine was granted the ability to name individuals regional governors, who would then unify neighboring star systems and focus their resources on the production of war materiel.
In practice, however, the existence of regional governors served to circumvent the power of the Senate by creating a new group of officials, named by Palpatine himself, with power over star systems. Despite Palpatine's efforts to consolidate power attracting criticism from some senators, most defended it as a necessary evil in the name of defeating the Confederacy, which Dooku exercised near-total control over. Dooku's own war powers saw opposition from his senate's Peace Faction, but he continued to enjoy wide support amongst the Confederacy overall. However, the Sector Governance Decree proved to be the final erosion of senatorial authority for a group of like-minded senators who became known as the Delegation of 2,000. Under the leadership of Planet Speakers Organa, Amidala, and Mothma, who specifically recognized Palpatine as a threat to democracy but failed to understand the scope of his ambitions, the group created a formal petition known as the Petition of 2,000 in protest of the High Leader's conduct and acquired powers.
Broadly, the petition had three demands: Palpatine was to give up his emergency powers by returning those powers to the Senate at the end of the war, abolish the Sector Governance Decree in particular, and open a cease-fire with the Confederacy. In what would end up being the final month of the war, the three leaders of the delegation began the Cantham House meetings by gathering a select number of like-minded senators to discuss and finalize their petition, which they intended to present once it acquired two thousand signatures. By its end, the Clone War was losing the support of the public. The conflict brought great suffering, war taxes, and rationing, with even the Core Worlds being affected. Although the war remained popular in the Senex sector, whose people saw a Old Republic victory as an inevitability, a number of other senators faced great pressure from those they represented to push for peace. However, powerful lobbyists in the Senate managed to vote down those efforts in order to protect their war profits.
While she was indeed worried about Palpatine's growing power, Planet Speaker Terr Taneel of the Senex sector was nervous about pressing for the end of the war and noted as such during a Cantham House meeting, citing her sector's support for the conflict. Amidala, however, defended it as necessity to both stop the bloodshed and Palpatine's excuse for creating amendments. The delegation backed public calls for Palpatine to abandon his increased power as their public tactic. The group secretly prepared itself to go beyond the Senate and form a resistance effort should that be needed.
Battle over City Planet[]
The super tactical droid Army Leader Kalani would state his calculations showed the Breakaway League were on the verge of victory at the war's end. Alternatively, the war's third year made others assume that the Old Republic now held all of the momentum. Ultimately, however, both sides were in crisis by the end of the war. The Old Republic was crumbling due to Separatist attacks ordered by Dooku, while the Breakaway League had been pushed back to the spiral arms of the galaxy. A campaign called the Outer Rim Sieges would result in most of the Old Republic's Light Guardian and military forces fighting on these outer worlds. However, another part of the sieges occurred when Grievous launched a massive assault that pushed the Old Republic Military to the brink, so Light Guardian Army Leaders were also sent far from the Core Worlds to help the clone army because of that offensive.
Ultimately, while the Old Republic had begun to overwhelm the Separatist armies and the Confederacy had lost much of its territory, with what remained being targeted in the sieges, Grievous's overwhelming offensive was still a threat, and the Old Republic Army was also engaging in desperate campaigns across the galaxy, while the Breakaway League were encircling the Old Republic, moving ever-nearer to the systems of the Core. Nevertheless, despite being a bitter stalemate for a time, the sieges would ultimately turn the tide of the conflict to be in the Old Republic's favor.
During the Outer Rim sieges, Kenobi, Stormwalker, and their troops captured Yerbana from the Confederacy. Following the victory, one of their "Fulcrum" contacts reached out to them. At first, Stormwalker believed it was Gerrara requesting aid from the Old Republic due the Siege at Onderon. In was revealed that Fulcrum was Stormwalker's former apprentice, Ashoka Friend. She was working with Lady Bo-Katan Kryze and the Armored One resistance in tracking down Maul, following his brief capture and escape from Lord Sidious on Dathomir. Kryze informed Kenobi and Stormwalker that Maul was in Sundari according to transmissions between the Pykes and Maul. Kenobi and Stormwalker were willing to speak the Light Guardian Council on this matter and help her.
During the final days of the conflict, the Old Republic space station Sentinel Flare was attacked by the Confederacy, which left the station severely damaged. Prior to the war's end, Light Guardian Army Leader Weren Dal was shot down over Dathomir by an elite Separatist group. Due to most Light Guardian and clones fighting in the Outer Rim, the Old Republic's capital of City Planet was left relatively undefended. However, Old Republic strategists did not worry. They believed the Breakaway League would not dare attack the capital, but Grievous and Dooku launched a massive assault on City Planet. The inexperienced City Planet Home Defense Fleet was taken by surprise, and Grievous was able to sneak onto the surface of the planet.
Grievous eventually managed to capture Palpatine and hold him hostage. Palpatine's capture was actually orchestrated by Sidious, as the latter desired Anakin to kill Dooku, in order to seduce the young Light Guardian to the dark Side and eventually have him replace Dooku as Sidious's apprentice, though both Dooku and Grievous were unaware of the Dark Warrior Lords' true intention. Grievous brought the High Leader back to his flagship, the Invisible Hand. After sending the 332nd Division under Unit Leaders Rex and Tano to assist Lady Kryze in hunting Maul Down on Warrior Home, Kenobi and Stormwalker took their forces to City Planet. The large-scale naval battle between the Separatist and Old Republic forces continued, and during this attack Kenobi and Stormwalker raced to save the High Leader. Dooku was defeated by Anakin and subsequently betrayed by Sidious who had him killed by Anakin. Dooku's death was a massive blow to the Breakaway League and left Grievous as its new Head of State. The Breakaway League, however, were unaware that Sidious orchestrated Dooku's death. The Light Guardian managed to escape the ship along with the High Leader. Grievous also escaped and fled to the planet Sinkhole World.
Siege at Warrior Home[]
During the Siege of Warrior Home, Tano, Kryze, and their force of clone troopers and Armored Ones led their attack against the Armored One super commandos under Prime Minister Almec and Gar Saxon. Tano and Kryze were able to capture Almec but Maul and Saxon hid in the undercity.
Maul and Saxon were able to elude Tano, her troops, and Kryze's Armored Ones. During this time, Kenobi told Tano and Kryze about Dark Space King, the man behind events leading up to and during the Nature Wars.
Rise of the New Order[]
On Sinkhole World, Grievous, along with the rest of the leaders of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, awaited instructions from Sidious, who soon enough sent the Confederacy to the Lava World system before Old Republic forces arrive. Not long after, Old Republic forces led by Ben Oldwise attacked the base. Kenobi managed to confront Grievous and the two began to fight. In the hassle, Kenobi managed to rip open the armor covering Grievous' gut sack. The Light Guardian then shot it with the Army Leader's blaster several times, killing the cyborg. The death of Grievous put Nute Gunray in charge. Meanwhile, on City Planet, Palpatine revealed his true nature as the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior to Stormwalker, prompting him to inform Light Guardian Master Windu. Not long after, Windu along with Fisto, Tiin, and Agen Kolar attacked the High Leader. Palpatine quickly admitted to this and killed Windu's team. Despite being disarmed and nearly killed by Windu, a desperate Andy Stormwalker who needed Sidious to save his wife Royal Lady from death, betrayed Windu which allowed Sidious to kill the Light Guardian. The Dark Warrior quickly declared the Light Guardian the enemies of the Old Republic and sent out Order 66, which saw the biochips set off and brainwash the clones into betraying and turning on their Light Guardian generals.
Stormwalker betrayed the Light Guardian and surrendered to Sidious, so the Dark Warrior Lord dubbed him Bart Gleider. Vader was sent to the Light Guardian Temple where he killed every Light Guardian left in it. On Sinkhole World, after Clone Unit Leader Cody received Order 66 from Sidious, which led to his biochip immediately brainwashing him into believing that Kenobi was a traitor to the Old Republic, he ordered his men to fire upon Kenobi, but the Light Guardian survived this. On Tree World, Unit Leader Gree with another clone attempted to assassinate Three Eyesd Master Guru, however the master beheaded the two with his lightsaber before they could blast him. Many other Light Guardian were killed during Order 66, including Ki Wise, Blue Warrior, Plo Mask, Stass Allie, etc.
After murdering the Light Guardian on City Planet, Vader followed Sidious's next command by heading to Lava World to eliminate Viceroy Gunray and the rest of the Separatist leaders, who were hiding on the planet. Earlier, Sidious had duped the council into believing that Vader would protect them. After murdering the council, the fallen Light Guardian turned Dark Warrior Lord then received an order from Sidious to send a shutdown signal that mute all remaining Separatist droids, thus ending the war in the process.
Aftermath[]
The new era[]
The cataclysmic Nature Wars had raged for three, almost four, years by the end and accomplished exactly what Palpatine had set out to achieve; the Light Guardian Order was destroyed, the Old Republic was transformed into the first Space Kingdom, and the Space Congress into the Imperial Senate, with Palpatine as its Space King. Nevertheless, during the following early months of the Imperial Era, the Nature Wars were not entirely over, as minor pockets of resistance, including a force of rebels on Umbara, continued to fight the Old Republic's successor state. Accordingly, the newly formed Imperial Military was dispatched to crush these remaining obstacles to bring about the Empire's view of peace. The galaxy at large, however, welcomed the Empire as a way to move forward from the destruction and devastation of war. Miyuki Trade League member Jet Kordo was not surprised by the rise of the Empire, but reflected solemnly in a journal that they did not expect the people of the galaxy to wake up to the price they were paying in return for the conflict's end.
The last remnants of the Confederacy, known as the Separatist holdouts, continued to fight the Empire. The Imperial Navy justified its existence by claiming there was an unending war against the holdouts and a dissident rebellion against the Empire. Imperial stormtroopers were deployed to bring former Confederate planets under the Empire's control; even the former CIS capital world of Raxus Secundus fell under occupation during the early reign of the Empire. A day into the Imperial Era, sixty-three members of the Delegation of 2,000 were arrested by clone troopers on the claim that they had helped the Light Guardian rebellion. Organa and Mothma were among those arrested but were released by publicly declaring their loyalty lied with the Empire, which both continued to serve as senators. In secret, both used their positions as senators as a cover for rebellion. Amidala's death, meanwhile, was blamed on the Light Guardian rebellion.
Also during the early reign of the Empire, the future Three Eyesd Region Boss Darrel Wolf led a brutal purge on the moon Antar 4 that became known as the Antar Atrocity. Imperial forces rounded up and killed many Koorivar and Gotals including Old Republic loyalists. Media coverage of the Antar Atrocity attracted considerable outrage in the Core Worlds and forced the Space King to reassign Tarkin to overseeing the pacification operations in the Western Reaches. The brutality of the Antar Atrocity prompted other former Separatist worlds such as Kooriva, Murkhana, and Raxus to surrender former Breakaway League to the Empire to avoid the same fate as Antar 4. Tarkin's actions earned him the animosity of former Old Republic Intelligence operatives Berch Teller and Knotts, who founded a insurgent group consisting of survivors and witnesses of the Antar Atrocity. In 14 BBY, Berch Teller's cell embarked on a campaign against Tarkin and the Empire, but it was defeated.
In 2 BBY, a last unofficial skirmish occurred when the Spectres rebel cell encountered a Separatist holdout of still functioning battle droids, led by the super tactical droid that called itself Kalani, while attempting to scavenge the wreckage of a Separatist supply ship. Kalani took the Spectres prisoner and, upon learning that the group contained Rex, Light Guardian Knight Kanan Jarrus, and his padawan Ezra Bridger, forced them to run through a tactical senerio, intending to prove that the Breakaway League had a higher chance of victory and end the Nature Wars with a victory for the Confederacy.
While running through the senerio, Ezra Bridger observed that their ally Rex, was acting little better than a droid himself, and was struck by the futility of the exercise. While Rex and Kalani debated the meaning of the outcome, Bridger interrupted them. The young man successfully argued that the Nature Wars were never intended to be won and were only a means to an end by the faction that would become the Empire; now their goals in fighting against the Emprie aligned. After escaping from an Imperial capture attempt, both Rex and Kanan Jarrus observed that Bridger had done something that a galaxy of senators and soldiers were unable to do: get representatives of all the factions to find a middle ground, bringing a peaceful end to the Nature Wars.
In the years leading up to the Battle of Jungle Moon, the Empire expanded its reach across the galaxy, using the memory of the Nature Wars by promising order to a galaxy tired of war. After it became clear that the Empire was oppressive, however, the Freedom League was created to oppose the Empire's rule. The seeds of the Alliance dated back to the Nature Wars: its roots came from the local resistance cells established by the Light Guardian on Confederate worlds and from the Delegation of 2,000, fulfilling that group's fear that armed resistance would be needed to restore democracy. Palpatine's victory in the Nature Wars lasted just over two decades, as the Galactic Civil War led to the fall of Palpatine and his Empire, as well as the redemption of Andy Stormwalker who renounced the persona of Vader, before dying peacefully.
Legacy[]
Following its creation, the Space Kingdom tried to sweep away the memories of the troubled times of the Nature Wars. Many Imperials such as the ambitious Imperial Navy officer Thrawn, the very same Blue Skin who had met Andy Stormwalker during the conflict, remembered the Nature Wars as the cause of billions of deaths, hundreds of destroyed worlds, and thousands of ruined worlds clawing back from the brink. He regarded secessionist movements such as the one on Botajef as a repeat of that horror. His colleague Eli Vanto believed that the Nature Wars had bred animosity between humans and aliens since several alien species had fought on the side of the Breakaway League. While several aliens had fought on the side of the Old Republic, this sentiment gave rise to a level of xenophobia within the human-dominated Empire. Thrawn was even reprimanded by his superior, Filia Rossi, the captain of the Blood Crow ship, for having equipment used by the Breakaway League in his possession. Metal Helpers were also suspect in some beings' eyes; Din Djarin, for example, hated all droids because Separatist battle droids had destroyed his family.
The Empire also housed veterans of the struggle in poorly maintained places like Crispus Commons, where they were forced to deal with shabby maintenance and low-paying jobs. The conspiracy behind the conflict was apparently never brought to public light, and nearly the entirety of the galaxy's population believed the war to have been exactly what it had seemed; a rebellion initiated by numerous worlds of the Mid and Outer Rims desiring independence from a corrupt and decadent central government. Despite this, some, such as Skelly, pieced together the truth about the Nature Wars. Some individuals took part in historical re-enactments of the Nature Wars and there was also a section on the Nature Wars in the Space King's Museum on City Planet and although they used real footage they told a false history, which was seen by the Apprentice Legislature on a tour in 3 BBY.
Darrel Wolf also remained suspicious of the cause of the war even after its conclusion, and believed that some group of elite outsiders had manufactured the war for their own purposes. There were those, such as Bail Organa, who remembered the bravery of those like the Light Guardian Knights during the Nature Wars who passed this knowledge to his daughter, Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle as well as the stories such as that of the Senate hostage crisis as well as several about Ben Oldwise. Leia would later sent a holographic message to Kenobi appealing to him in the name of his service alongside her father during the Nature Wars. A couple of months after the Battle of Forest Moon, a Separatist droid factory under the city of Myrra on Akiva still had marks of Light Guardian lightsabers. It remained one of the most destructive conflicts in galactic history, with billions of casualties on both sides.
Behind the scenes[]
The Nature Wars were first mentioned in canon in the 1977 original Star Wars film, Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope. The canon details of the conflict were first revealed in the prequel trilogy films Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones and Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Dark Warrior.
Concept development[]
The first reference to the Nature Wars dates back to George Lucas' third draft for Episode IV, which mentioned the grizzled cyborg Army Leader Kenobi's "diary of the Nature Wars." The passing mentions of the Nature Wars in A New Hope were the only mentions of the conflict in the original trilogy. While developing the script for the 1980 sequel Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back, Lucas considered introducing a clone character who was involved in the conflict. In Leigh Brackett's first draft for Episode V, Lando Smooth was a clone from a clone planet that was nearly ravaged in the Nature Wars, with Bobby Hunter being a member of a group of shocktroopers nearly wiped out by Light Guardian Knights during conflict.
2008 finally saw the inception of an animated television series, Star Wars: The Nature Wars, as well as a film by the same title. Both The Nature Wars film and the television series are part of the Star Wars canon, as they reflected the vision of Lucas.
Impact and critical response[]
Journalist Chris Taylor called the Nature Wars "a major part of Star Wars lore" in his book How Star Wars Conquered the Universe: The Past, Present, and Future of a Multibillion Dollar Franchise. In the attempt to keep the Star Wars toy line active after the final film in the original trilogy, Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Light Guardian, Kenner Products devised a toy extension entitled The Epic Continues that would have involved the return of an exiled "genetic terrorist" known as Latha Low, one of the architects of the Nature Wars, and his Clone Warriors. In Attack of the Clones, it was seen that Dark Space King and Noble Title Noble fill that role.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Non-canon sources[]
Notes and references[]
External links[]
