Dooku was a Force-sensitive human male Serennian who served as a Light Guardian Master during the waning years of the Galactic Old Republic and later Noble Title of House Serenno. He became dissatisfied with the Light Guardian Order and fell to the dark side of the Force, becoming the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior Dark Noble Title. After leaving the Light Guardian Order, he served as Noble Title of Serenno and Head of State of the Confederacy of Independent Systems during the Nature Wars. He was the second apprentice of Dark Space King, the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior, whose plan to conquer the galaxy relied on Dooku leading a pan-galactic secessionist movement against the Old Republic. As such, Dooku immersed himself in the dark side of the Force and worked tirelessly to advance his and his master's Three Eyesd Plan while being unaware that he was merely a pawn of his master.
Born in 102 BBY during the High Old Republic Era, Dooku was taken by the Light Guardian Order after being abandoned by his family and learned the Light Guardian arts as the Student of Guru, the legendary Three Eyesd Master of the Light Guardian Order; he went on to take the maverick Quiet John as his own apprentice. A political idealist, the corruption in the Space Congress—as well as the traditions of the Light Guardian—disillusioned him. In 42 BBY Dooku left the Order and returned to his homeworld, where he reclaimed his title of Noble Title and heritage as a nobleman after overthrowing his corrupt brother, Ramil. His former peers believed his decision was misguided but still held him in high esteem. However the Noble Title of Serenno began to secretly conspire with Dark Space King. After the death of Quiet John at the Battle of Water Realm in 32 BBY, and following the duel in the Works which saw the death of Light Guardian Master Yaddle, Dooku embraced the dark side and adopted the name of Dark Noble Title upon fully becoming the apprentice of Dark Space King. Throughout the first decade of Sheev Palpatine's chancellery, Dooku used his resources and charisma to recruit entire star systems to the Separatist cause. At the same time, he oversaw the development of two vast armies that would be pitted against each other in the conflict to come: the Separatist Metal Helper Army, which consisted of battle droids manufactured on worlds such as Bug Planet; and the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic, composed of clone troopers bred on Clone World and modeled on the bounty hunter Jango Clone.
After years of maneuvering the galaxy into a state of war, the Nature Wars began when the newly formed Old Republic Military invaded Bug Planet in 22 BBY. As leader of the Breakaway League, Dooku delegated military authority to a cadre of subordinates personally trained by himself, including Army Leader Steel and Assassin Night. While Grievous was trained only in the art of lightsaber combat, Ventress was strong with the Force, affording her the opportunity to learn the ways of the dark side from Dooku. The Dark Warrior, however, remained faithful to Dark One Bane's Rule of Two; and as such, Dooku was compelled to betray his disciple after Sidious became suspicious of his own apprentice's intentions. Though he sought to replace Ventress with Savage Brother and later Quinlan Vos, Dooku ultimately remained beholden to his master's will, which would eventually be his undoing.
By the third year of the war, Dooku and Grievous succeeded in abducting High Leader Palpatine (per Sidious' plan) from the Old Republic capital of City Planet in 19 BBY. During the ensuing Battle of City Planet, he was confronted and defeated by the Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker, who summarily executed the Noble Title via beheading at the High Leader's behest. In the days following Dooku's death, Palpatine revealed to the Light Guardian that he was, in fact, Dark Space King, who betrayed his apprentice in order to replace him with the younger and more promising Stormwalker. With the subsequent fall of the Light Guardian Order, Sidious consolidated his power upon declaring himself Space King of the Space Kingdom, which Tyranus had an instrumental role in establishing. As for Stormwalker, he succeeded the late Dark Noble Title as Sidious' third and last apprentice, resulting in his transformation into Bart Gleider and proving his slain victim's words of sensing fear, hate, and anger.
Contents
Biography[]
Early life[]
Light Guardian induction and initiation[]
Dooku was born in 102 BBY during the High Old Republic Era, on the planet Serenno to the planet's ruler, Noble Title Gora, and his wife, Noble Titleess Anya. The child's Force-sensitivity manifested itself rapidly, scaring his father, who hated and feared those he dismissed as "freaks." Gora contacted the Light Guardian Order and told them to take his son. However, instead of waiting for the Light Guardian seekers to arrive, Gora abandoned the infant outside his palace on the edges of the forest without clothes or any form of identification. A seeker rescued Dooku before he froze to death or was eaten by spine-wolves, and brought the child to the Light Guardian Three Eyesd Temple on City Planet.
Life as a youngling[]
Dooku was integrated into Hawk-Bat Clan alongside fellow younglings Zang Arraira, Arath Tarrex, and Sifo-Dyas, under the direction of the Light Guardian Master Tera Sinube. During his time as a Light Guardian youngling, he continuously strove to excel, working himself hard to achieve better results than his peers and always striving to remain within the boundaries of the rules set by his teachers. Dooku therefore distanced himself from the other younglings rather than try to befriend them. His talents made him clash with fellow youngling Tarrex, largely due to the latter's jealousy over Dooku's superior abilities. Tarrex frequently insulted Dooku, calling him 'His Excellency' due to his imperious and somewhat aristocratic manner. Dooku and Sifo-Dyas were close friends during their time as younglings, and on one occasion in 90 BBY accompanied Three Eyesd Master Guru and Masters Sinube and Yula Braylon to Serenno for the galactic festival being held there with other Light Guardian in tow.
As the Masters were demonstrating the proper lightsaber stances, a pair of children set off some thunderburst caps and ran off, Dooku thought he recognized one of them and followed them out to the fairgrounds. There he found the two being harassed by a trio of thugs that were threatening to kidnap them, Dooku used his Force powers and an electroblade to force the criminals to back off. Afterwards, the pair introduced themselves as Jenza and Ramil, though the latter was less than thankful for the Light Guardian's assistance. When she learned Dooku was from Serenno, Jenza offered to give Dooku a tour of the homeworld he never knew.
They explored the celebration together playing games and tasting the food, becoming fast friends as they got to know each other. Eventually, Jenza took Dooku to the Great Assembly, where she showed him the seals of the seven houses and told him the legend of how her ancestors liberated the planet from the Dark Warrior Empire. Though before they could leave Dooku felt drawn to an ancient carving of a beast, that was identified by Jenza as a Tirra'Taka. Ignoring her warning that it was bad luck, he moved to touch it, and as his finger brushed the stone, a groundquake caused the building around them to collapse.
Though Dooku attempted to lift the debris off of them himself, it took the intervention of Master Guru to free the the two from the rubble. Once the other Masters helped the Three Eyesd Master remove the collapsed structure from the area, Noble Title Gora of Serenno furiously confronted Guru when he heard Dooku's name being voiced, yelling at the Light Guardian that he never wished to see his son again. It was here that the young Light Guardian learned that Gora was his Father and Jenza his sister.
Shocked and confused by his father's behavior, Dooku later questioned Guru about how he was brought into the Light Guardian Order. The elder Light Guardian revealed that Gora had contacted the Light Guardian upon discovering his son's Force-sensitivity, and that he had left Dooku outside his castle walls without clothes or identification. Dooku would learn shortly after that being left on the edge of the forest put him at risk of being eaten alive by Spine-wolves had he not been found. Upon arriving back at the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet, his injuries were quickly healed and the young Light Guardian quickly threw himself back into his training. Dooku using this practice to vent his frustrations at Noble Title Gora for abandoning him, and furthermore to think deeply about what he might have been if he had never become a Light Guardian. At this time an attendant arrived with a communications device that would allow him to speak to his sister, and they stayed in contact for many years.
Two years later, after a lesson in the Light Guardian Archives Sifo-Dyas revealed to Dooku he had come into possession of the journal of the expelled Light Guardian; Klias Teradine, which revealed to him the existence of the Bogan Collection inside the Light Guardian Archives. Sifo convinced Dooku that they should break in to see the dark side artifacts. Dooku later used sand levitation to get past the magnetic lock. There they witnessed many dark objects, weapons, and scrolls the Light Guardian had collected over their history. Dooku in particular was drawn to a piece of metal that seemed to connect him to the same Tirra'Taka he had first encountered on Serenno. This frightened the boy, who lashed out through the Force and accidentally threw Sifo-Dyas through a cabinet, alerting the Chief Librarian, Restelly Quist, to their actions.
The two initiates were brought to the infirmary where Sifo's injuries were treated, and they were confronted by Masters Guru and Braylon, who each expressed a deep disappointment in how they had broken the rules and betrayed their trust. As the Masters were lecturing them, their discussion was interrupted by the arrival of Lene Kostana, who expressed great concern over the security of the Bogan Collection since two younglings had been able to break in. Dooku and Sifo-Dyas watched the Masters debate their conflicting views on how best to train the next generation to confront the Dark Side. Afterwards, they were assigned to decipher the Grassland Papyri, a collection of agricultural treatises, under the watchful eyes of Librarian Quist. As they served their penance, they had another encounter with Lene Kostana who was surprised that Guru was still using the same treatises as punishment for misbehaved younglings, and playfully referred to the Three Eyesd Master as a goblin which offended Dooku. As she left, Sifo-Dyas discovered she slipped him a book: The Bestiary of Dark One Caldoth. Dooku encouraged his friend to tell someone about the text, but Sifo refused.
This event greatly disturbed Dooku, who began to think Master Kostana might secretly be a Dark Warrior, one day he confronted her on the contemplation balcony demanding to know why she gave his friend the Dark Warrior script. She said the book was a test, though Dooku sensed a great deal of frustration and anger in her which he believed legitimized his theory. The two engaged in a short duel, during which Master Kostana played an act of goading him on, using the tale of Dark One Sakia as a lesson by comparing Dooku's curved-hilt lightsaber to the fictional Dark Warrior's weapon, and revealing she was aware of Dooku's curious connection to the Tirra'Taka. Unfortunately Kostana quickly lost control of the situation as Dooku began a frenzy of attacks that began wearing down her defenses. Their fight was broken up by the timely intervention of Master Guru who calmed the initiate down and convinced him that he had jumped to conclusions. The Three Eyesd Master then chided the Altiri on her constant need to test the initiates by exposing them to dark side artifacts. Following this event Dooku began to spend more time with Master Kostana, as he started to look to her as a mentor figure, since he took a great deal of interest in her work studying the dark side, her theories concerning the Dark Warrior, and even her pet Convor Ferana. He visited her nearly every time she returned to the Temple following her missions.
The Three Eyesd Master's apprentice[]
In 86 BBY, Dooku later completed his Initiate Trials and hoped to be selected as the Student apprentice to Lene Kostana due to her mission in hunting down relics associated with the dark side. During the Student Tournament, Dooku fought and defeated Sifo-Dyas in a duel with one hand behind his back and blindfolded. However, Kostana selected Sifo-Dyas as her apprentice, which upset Dooku, though this disappointment subsided when he learned that Guru had decided to take him as his apprentice.
A strong bond developed between Dooku and Guru as his training continued. On one occasion, Guru took Dooku on a voyage to Lahsbane in the Mid Rim as part of his training. During a mission to Tree World, Dooku watched as his master faced a giant Terentatek.
Sifo-Dyas' vision[]
Sometime around 85 BBY, Sifo-Dyas received a Force vision of a deadly solar storm hitting the planet Protobranch. After informing the Light Guardian Council, Dooku supported Sifo-Dyas and Kostana's suggestion that they warn the planet, but was forbidden to by Guru and the Council, who pointed out that Force visions were not absolute and the future was always in motion.
Frustrated with the Council, Dooku, Kostana, and Sifo-Dyas went behind the Council's back to inform Tavetti, the senator who represented Protobranch, of the vision. During the conversation, Dooku was slightly unnerved by Tavetti only expressing concern for Protobranch's resources rather than its people. Afterwards, Dooku, Kostana, Sifo-Dyas and a reluctant Guru went to the planet itself. Ultimately, Sifo-Dyas' vision came to pass; a powerful solar storm hit Protobranch, killing much of the population, with the Light Guardian themselves barely surviving.
The events with Protobranch shook Dooku's respect for the Old Republic and the Light Guardian Council, feeling the latter was somewhat responsible for the deaths that occurred by not taking Sifo-Dyas' vision seriously and refusing to act quicker. He was also disgusted by the fact that the Old Republic's primary concern was the loss of Protobranch's resources and not its inhabitants.
Funeral of Anya[]
Around 82 BBY, a twenty year old Dooku attended the funeral of his mother, Anya, on Serenno. It was here that his father Gora physically and verbally assaulted him, referring to his son as a "freak." Shortly afterward, Dooku joined Sifo-Dyas and his master Kostana on a mission to track down a relic on Asusto. However, the pair were led into a trap by the Presagers of Hakotei who tricked them into following a supposed trail of Dark Warrior artifacts from Karazak. Dooku was briefly captured by the Presagers to be used as part of a dark side ritual. It was during his brief captivity that he experienced a series of visions of his future, and he used Force lightning for the first time in order to kill his captors. After which Master Kostana and Sifo-Dyas taught him a cleansing ritual involving arm wrappings that was designed to keep him centered in the force.
Light Guardian Master[]
Attaining the rank[]
Between 82 BBY and 78 BBY, Dooku completed his training with Guru and became a Light Guardian Knight and eventually Light Guardian Master, rising to be one of the greatest Light Guardian of his generation. A veteran of many galactic conflicts, known for his exceptional skills as a lightsaber duelist. He would take Rael Averross as his Student, training him for 10 years and to Knighthood. Dooku had also set aside his first blade and created his own curved-hilt lightsaber, which produced a blue blade. Dooku used his lightsaber when he and Guru demonstrated their lightsaber skills to a group of younglings, amongst them the Togorian Jak'zin. Furthermore, Dooku was the main lightsaber instructor for Thranta Clan.
Dooku also rendered aid to Mother Talzin of the Nightsisters, who were based on the world of Dathomir, giving her a lock of his hair.
Training Qui-Gon[]
In 68 BBY, Dooku having finished training Averross by this point, would take a 12-year-old Quiet John as his second Student. On the evening of Qui-Gon being assigned to him, Jinn presented himself to his new Master in Dooku's quarters, Dooku observed that Jinn was frightened. After a moment of silence, and pressing him, Jinn confessed that he was frightened. He asked his apprentice why and after looking into himself through the fear, Jinn answered that he was not afraid of Dooku, but of not becoming a Light Guardian, that he was afraid of failing and of not being worthy. Dooku then summarized it as Jinn being afraid of himself, of a future not being the one he wanted. Jinn confirmed it, fearing that Dooku will reject him for his apparent cowardice. Dooku instead said that it was very wise, surprising Jinn. Smiling, he would explain that most Students would deny their fear, and even if they admitted it, they would not have Jinn's self-knowledge. He then further praised Jinn for his honesty, insight, and intelligence.
To help Jinn understand the Light Guardian Temple more completely, Dooku decided to take him throughout most of the Temple, including the Students' sparring dojo, and the one for full Light Guardian Knights, and the Great Assembly Room. Their last stop was the Light Guardian Archives, where they examined holocrons of various eras, not to study them, but simply for Jinn to learn his way around. While doing so, a particularly old holocron, more ancient and of a different shape than the rest, caught Jinn's eye. When he questioned his Master about it, he was shocked by the expression on Dooku's face, almost as if he considered it an enemy. Dooku answered that it was a holocron of Light Guardian prophecies. Jinn asked if there were Light Guardian prophets, to which Dooku replied not any longer. He explained to Jinn that the mystics sought undue knowledge of the future which led them down dangerous paths. Those drawn too deeply into them were often tempted by the dark side. Dooku then finished by saying that is why the Light Guardian study prophecy no longer, then turned to leave, which meant Jinn had to follow. Jinn then asked Dooku if just wanting to know the future can lead to the dark side. Dooku simply replied that it takes more than that.
After training Qui-Gon for several months the Council sent him with his apprentice to Shurrupak to participate in a battle on its surface, which was Qui-Gon's very first. When they landed on the surface the encountered his first apprentice, Rael Averross, whom Dooku introduced to his new apprentice. Eventually, a strike team, including Dooku and Jinn, was assembled and sent to find notorious Falleen Bounty hunter Shenda Mol. They tracked her to the planet Numidian Prime where she had a stronghold and a handful of followers. After her followers were rounded up, it was left to Dooku and Jinn to bring Mol in. Whilst searching for her hideout, Jinn was captured by Mol, but before she could kill him, he was saved by Dooku who struck her with Force lightning. Jinn later told Rael Averross what Dooku had done, but he was unconcerned.
Search for a senator's son[]
On a mission to rescue the abducted son of Planet Speaker Dagonet, one of the Old Republic's longest serving members, Dooku and Jinn traveled to the Planet Speaker's home planet. To the stoic Light Guardian master and young Student's surprise, the planet's surface was little more than a wasteland which had been completely stripped of its natural resources and ravaged by over-industrialization. The two Light Guardian headed for a barren village in the distance. As they walked through the village, not a single resident dared step outside of their homes nor answer Qui-Gon's questions, which prompted them to enter the local inn. Fearless and keeping his unperplexed Light Guardian manner, Dooku immediately asked for the abducted child of the Planet Speaker twice. One of the villagers questioned why she should tell them, to which Dooku responded by producing his lightsaber. Once the villagers realized that Dooku and Qui-Gon were Light Guardian, Dooku stated their intention to resolve the situation and Qui-Gon assured the villagers that they were not acting on behalf of the Planet Speaker, which prompted the villager to ask how much they knew of the Planet Speaker. She explained that the village's desolate surroundings were proof that the Planet Speaker, who might have had good intentions at the beginning, had begun to neglect his people. Qui-Gon asked the villager why the people did not simply elect a new Planet Speaker, to which she replied that things were not so easy. She then agreed to show the Light Guardian where the Planet Speaker's son was located. At this point, Qui-Gon and Dooku were surprised to discover that virtually every visitor present at the inn had been involved in the kidnapping.
Escorted to a barn, the Light Guardian found the Planet Speaker's son restrained and surrounded by a droid and armed villagers. Dooku asked if the boy had been harmed, and having been assured that he had not, asked what the boy knew of the villagers' living conditions. The boy did not blame them for kidnapping him as he sympathized with their circumstance. At that point a villager entered and informed the group that Planet Speaker Dagonet had arrived with dozens of armed soldiers. The villagers immediately accused the Light Guardian of leading them into a trap, but Dooku calmed them by stating that their investigation was unknown to the Planet Speaker. Outside, Light Guardian and kidnappers watched as the Planet Speaker handed bread to the villager who had given up his son's location. One of the kidnappers remarked that many in the village would have done the same. Planet Speaker Dagonet ordered Dooku and Qui-Gon to apprehend the villagers and release his son at once. Placing himself between the Planet Speaker and his people, Dooku tried to calm the escalating tension by stating that their investigation was incomplete. The prideful Planet Speaker demanded his son's release, to which Dooku responded that the young man was in no immediate danger and that further investigation was needed. Unwilling to delay any longer, the Planet Speaker ordered his men to prepare to attack the villagers, which caused the villagers to raise their own weapons. The Planet Speaker then gave the Light Guardian one more chance to step aside, but Dooku refused. Dagonet claimed that the Light Guardian were supposed to serve him, but Dooku corrected him and stated that the Light Guardian served the people of the Old Republic, not its leaders. His patience exhausted, the frustrated Planet Speaker commanded his soldiers to aim and be ready to open fire. In an effort to protect the villagers, the two Light Guardian ignited their lightsabers.
A firefight erupted, and the precise shots of the soldiers began to overwhelm the kidnappers while the Light Guardian could only defend themselves and watch the ensuing massacre. After finishing off most of the villagers, Planet Speaker Dagonet stopped his soldiers. Dooku, finding himself surrounded by citizens of the Old Republic who had been killed by their own leader, felt a sense of righteous anger which led him to tap into the dark side of the Force. As the Planet Speaker proclaimed that he would not be deterred by anyone, he was stopped mid-sentence as his throat began to constrict from Dooku's sudden Force choke. Alarmed, Qui-Gon tried to stop his master, but Dooku Force pushed him back into the door of the barn and continued to torture the arrogant Planet Speaker. The remaining soldiers were unable to resist the Light Guardian Master as he approached and stood in front of the struggling Planet Speaker, who had collapsed on the ground as he struggled to breath. Meanwhile, Qui-Gon, sensing only one opportunity to save the Planet Speaker's life, rushed back into the barn and freed his son. Dooku, who had given in completely to the Dark Side in his desire to eradicate corruption, would have killed the defenseless Planet Speaker, but the Planet Speaker's son rushed forward and begged the Light Guardian to stop. As Qui-Gon told Dooku it was over, Dooku finally regained his composure and let go of Planet Speaker Dagonet.
In the aftermath, the Planet Speaker left the planet with his son, who promised to make things right for his people. The villagers nodded in gratitude for the Light Guardian's efforts as they started to rebuild their village. Dooku proclaimed his doubts that anything would change as a result of this ordeal, which made his Student question if that was his master's motivation to take action. Dooku congratulated Qui-Gon's success in saving so many lives. His Student stated it was just a matter on focusing on the moment, which made Dooku warmly acknowledge him as a much wiser man than himself as they walked to their ship.
Fighting his own way[]
Sometime between 50 BBY and 42 BBY, Dooku and fellow Light Guardian Master Mace Purple were given instructions to return the body of Master Katri, who had been killed in an ambush on Raxus Secundus, to the Light Guardian temple so she could have a proper burial. Dooku was suspicious of the circumstances surrounding Katri's death, as no reason behind it, nor the identity of her murderers, was known. Furthermore, since the Raxus Planet Speaker, Larik had been present during the ambush, Dooku wondered how he had survived when Katri, a fully-trained Light Guardian Master, had not. Because of his suspicions, Dooku believed they needed to do more to honor Katri and investigate her death, but Windu was firm in his beliefs that the rules were there for a reason.
The pair eventually touched down on Raxus Secundus, where they met with Planet Speaker Larik, who said he was there with Katri at the time of her death. Dooku asked Larik to explain what happened, but the senator acted cagey and Dooku noticed elements of his story didn't line up. Windu shared this belief and concern and wanted to take the information to the Light Guardian Council. Dooku, however, wanted to follow the lead himself. They all headed off together to meet an informant at the place where Katri and Larik were supposedly ambushed, following Dooku's plan. Examining the crime scene, the Dooku and Windu deduced there were more than one attacker, but also noticed that there were no blaster marks on the Planet Speaker's ship. Suspecting that the senator might've had something to do with Katri's death, Dooku ignited his lightsaber and scathingly demanded the truth. Terrified, Larik immediately turned and admitted that the guards killed Katri, but he was shot dead instantly for uttering the truth.
Dooku and Windu were also attacked by the guards, but they got the better of the men and their droids, defeated them. When they got the final man, Semage, down on his knees, he admitted that they killed Katri because the group he was operating within had learned Larik was using his Senate seat to become rich at the expense of their planet, industrializing it and selling it off piece by piece. Semage explained to Dooku and Windu that the reason they kept Larik alive was to make him enact their own rules at the next Senate hearing meeting to reverse the damage done. When Windu questioned why Semage did not inform Katri of Larik's corruption, Semage insisted that though the Light Guardian claimed to bring peace, they were really only at the whim of the Senate, and only kept law and order for the rich. The pair eventually put Semage in lockup, but Dooku understood how he felt and decided to go to his cell to meet him, telling him that while he did not condone his methods, he believed they had a right to protect their planet. Dooku also told him to make sure his people continued to evolve and did not lose heart, telling him that it was the only way to ensure victory.
Having solved Katri's murder, Dooku and Windu brought her body back to the Light Guardian temple, where she was honored and cremated in a ceremony. After the funeral, Dooku approached Windu to ask if he had been offered Master Katri's council seat, as rumors claimed that he had. When Windu confirmed that it was the case, a suspicious Dooku questioned if Windu was aware Katri's position was open before they left for Raxus. Insisting that he had no idea about it before taking the case, Windu explained that he believed he had been given the seat over Dooku because Dooku did not stick to the mission and acted in a way that led to a senator's death. Nevertheless, Windu told Dooku that he would speak to the Council on his behalf. Dooku was more resentful than grateful but thanked him nonetheless.
Conspiracy in the Council[]
Shortly before Qui-Gon's trials between 49 BBY and 44 BBY, the pair were invited by council member Jor Aerith to join her in representing the Light Guardian at the annual City Planet Dragonfire Air Rally in hopes of making a good impression on the Candovant ambassador who had invited her. Dooku and Master Yula Braylon expressed frustration at the Council's obsession with politics, but Aerith pointed out Dooku's charisma made him a natural conversationalist, for which she was not.
Dooku agreed to attend and took the opportunity to teach his apprentice some Candovant customs, but while he was there, he ran into his brother Ramil who was participating in the race. Dooku questioned why he as the heir to the Serrenian throne was racing, but the older man dismissed him. While Ramil did very well in the race, it quickly became apparent his airspeeder was sabotaged and it crashed. Dooku and his apprentice discreetly went to see what had happened, and while there they discovered the Investigator was trying to cover up the incident. Following the man, they found he was working for a Jenet crime boss named Cenevax. Ignoring a message from Aerith asking them to return to the races, they chose to confront and captured the criminal, and while questioning her they realized that she was privy to Council communications, as Cenevax made clear she knew they that had been recalled and were disobeying order by being there. With this information, Dooku deduced that she had a spy on the Council.
Calling the Temple Guard, Dooku escorted Cenevax to the Council Chamber where he made his accusation, the Council was disturbed by this but through the Force he sensed Yula Braylon's guilt. Igniting his lightsaber, he called her out, and in return she ignited hers and asked Dooku if he intended to kill her. Relenting, he stated he simply wanted justice and placed her under arrest. Further investigation revealed that Cenevax had been blackmailing her with the fact that Arath Tarrex was in fact her son. Dooku and Qui Gon confronted and exposed Tarrex, who was then taken into custody for his actions and also for having sold out his mother's influence to criminals. Braylon's actions caused her to be removed from the council. When it was done, Dooku inquired into what would happen to Cenevax and Guru informed him she would be taken to the Citadel on Lola Sayu. Dooku was dismayed at the prospect of the Light Guardian taking the law into their own hands, as well as Master Braylon's mistrust of the Light Guardian Order which brought her into that situation in the first place. His faith in the order was shaken once again. Dooku was then offered a seat on the Council, which he accepted, as he felt change needed to come to the order from within.
Losing faith[]
Eventually, Qui-Gon graduated to knighthood and went on to become a Master himself. He later took a Student: Ben Oldwise. Dooku maintained some contact with Jinn, who spoke very highly about his apprentice Kenobi to his former master. At some stage, Dooku took on another pupil. She later fell to the dark side and was killed for becoming an embarrassment. She created two red-bladed lightsabers that Dooku held on to after his death. Over time, Dooku became disillusioned with the Old Republic due to its corruption and believed that the Light Guardian Order had become too connected to the government.
Leaving the Light Guardian Order[]
At some point in 42 BBY, Averross introduced Dooku to the Water Realm senator Sheev Palpatine, who was secretly the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Space King, on City Planet after Dooku delivered an address to the Space Congress. He then returned to his ancestral home of Serenno with Master Kostana and Sifo-Dyas after his sister Jenza pleaded for his help. Dooku became embroiled in the invasion of Serenno, caused by his brother, Noble Title Ramil, who had hired Abyssin mercenaries to attack the planet to turn its people against the Old Republic. In the ensuring battle, Dooku killed Ramil.
Reclaiming the title of Noble Title of Serenno after killing his brother, Dooku also took possession of his family fortune, one of the largest in the galaxy. Believing his people needed him, Dooku decided he needed to leave the Light Guardian to lead Serenno, feeling it was his responsibility after all his brother had done. Furthermore, the people of the planet had found new resources, a deposit of sacanium, which they could produce themselves. The Old Republic offered to help with the resources despite having previously decided the Abyssin crisis was an internal affair. Dooku rejected the Old Republic's aid, deciding the recovery of Serenno would also be an internal matter as well. Contacting Guru, Dooku explained his choices to his mentor and remained steadfast in his choice to leave.
Although it saddened them, Guru promised Dooku that choice was respected by the Light Guardian Council. When Dooku stated he would turn over his lightsaber, Guru told him to keep the blade; his mentor explained that being a Light Guardian was more than a title, so he was to keep the weapon. After saying goodbye to Guru, the count said goodbye to his old friend Sifo-Dyas, promising that they would see each other again. At the age of 60, Dooku had left the order. Dooku then became one of the Lost Twenty.
Noble Title of Serenno[]
Disappearing from public life[]
Despite his newfound wealth and power, however, Dooku all but disappeared from public life after his resignation. Due to the Noble Title spending most time away from the eye of the public, most believed that he had gone into a sort of self-imposed exile with the intention of founding an offshoot of the Light Guardian Order. Dooku was, however, still welcome within the Temple on City Planet due to his past as a Light Guardian. As such, he often returned to it and had meetings with the Council. One day in 41 BBY, he returned for one such meeting while the Council was feuding with Jinn.
However, at some point during this period, Dooku was approached by Dark Space King, who saw the former Light Guardian as a potential leader for a Separatist movement against the Old Republic. Using the Noble Title's frustration with the Old Republic and the Light Guardian Order, the Dark Lord would start turning Dooku to the dark side. Ultimately vowing to wipe away the corruption within the organizations he had once served, Dooku shared his misgivings with Sidious. While Sidious already had a Dark Warrior apprentice in Dark Horn, he secretly recruited Dooku to his cause, In 40 BBY, Dooku shared with his former Student Rael Averross that he had discovered a great power that he wished to share with Averross. However, Averross rebuffed Dooku's offer and before cutting the transmission, informing his former master that he had chosen the light and was not interested in what Dooku had to offer him. Nonetheless, over Dooku's many visits to the temple, Guru failed to sense the growing darkness in his former pupil.
Aiding Sidious[]
After accepting Sidious' offer, Dooku helped his new ally to implement much of the groundwork necessary to begin the Nature Wars, even using his access to the Light Guardian Temple to further the Dark Warrior Three Eyesd Plan. The most important project that he oversaw during that time was the creation of a clone army intended for use by the Old Republic during the planned war. It was unknown how the Dark Warrior had learned about the army, but Dooku would later claim his old friend Light Guardian Master Sifo-Dyas had willingly brought him into the fold to help establish it. Greatly troubled by the Old Republic's tumultuous political situation and the Light Guardian Council's apparent complacency, Dyas ordered the clone army from the Clone Worldans, which Dyas hoped to hold in reserve in case of civil war.
Creating Grievous[]
By the year 33 BBY, Dooku discovered the Masked Warrior warlord Grievous, formerly known as Qymaen jai Sheelal, who had been shown to be a brilliant military leader with a remarkable reputation as a successful warlord on his homeworld of Kalee. Dooku and Sidious had seen Grievous's potential when he led his people in a war against their planetary neighbors, the Yam'rii, a greedy, technologically-advanced insectoid species from the planet Huk in the same system as Kalee. When the Masked Warrior armies forced the Yam'rii from their home, the insects took a surprising move and sought assistance from the Galactic Old Republic, to which it and the Light Guardian responded by joining the side of the Yam'rii against the invaders. The Masked Warrior were condemned and hit with embargoes and fines, with hundreds of thousands of Masked Warrior dying of starvation. Grievous's hatred for the Old Republic and the Light Guardian intensified, which prompted him to ally with the InterGalactic Clan. Grievous became an enforcer and was phenomenally successful as one of the IGBC's most important resources. With his exploits having already piqued the interest of both Dooku and Sidious, they had big plans for him and wanted to test their experiments with technologically advanced beings.
Grievous willingly took the Dark Warrior up on their offer of cybernetic enhancements. However, Grievous' shuttle was later gravely sabotaged, nearly killing him and destroying the majority of what remained of his original body. After that gruesome shuttle crash that left him fatally injured and regained consciousness in a bacta tank, Grievous discovered that he had been nearly totally gutted and mutilated by surgical FX droids, and Dooku offered the Masked Warrior warrior life-saving surgery. The Noble Title claimed that a Light Guardian was responsible for the sabotage, which fueled Grievous to accept reconstruction and return to military service, the Army Leader harbored a deep and fierce hatred of the Light Guardian, the Old Republic, and the Yam'rii; however, in truth, Dooku was directly responsible for Grievous' injuries and subsequent transformation. Under Dooku's direction, Separatist cybernetic experts and Insectoid biotechs nearly completely reconstructed Grievous. Dooku initially gave the general a weapon that belonged to a long-dead friend, a former Light Guardian, and had him spend hours upon hours studying holovids of Light Guardian in battle and reading all the training manuals he could furnish him with. Dooku continued to instruct Grievous in lightsaber combat, making him even more lethal. Grievous then modified and improved his cybernetic body throughout time and was soon unleashed on the galaxy.
Visiting the Temple[]
In 32 BBY, Dooku visited the Light Guardian Temple and secretly entered the Light Guardian Archives, where he used Sifo Dyas' authorization to erase data on the existence of the planet Clone World, where the clone army Dyas had ordered was being developed. After doing so, he noticed commotion between the Light Guardian within the archives and asked Light Guardian archivist Jocasta Archive about it, who informed him that his former Student Quiet John had encountered with an alleged Dark Warrior Lord on the Outer Rim planet Desertia. Qui-Gon and his Student, Ben Oldwise, had traveled to the Mid Rim planet Water Realm in an attempt to negotiate with Viceroy of the Merchant Guild Nute Gunray to relinquish his blockade on the planet. Gunray, however, under orders from Sidious—who had engineered the conflict to get himself elected Supreme High Leader—ordered for the two Light Guardian to be killed, though their attempts failed and the two Light Guardian managed to escape Water Realm alongside its queen, Pamela Planet Ruler. On their way to City Planet, the crew made a stop at Desertia, where they encountered Maul, whom they managed to evade.
Upon hearing that, Dooku commented to her that Jinn had an active imagination, which Nu reminded Dooku he once had. Remarking that such a quality was valued a lot less in the Light Guardian Temple, Dooku left the Archives and found his way to Jinn, who was walking through the Temple halls with Master Yaddle, to ask him about the supposed Dark Warrior Lord he had encountered. Dooku guessed correctly that the Light Guardian Council had not wanted to believe that conclusion, adding that he had been warning them about the coming darkness for years and they had never taken him seriously. Yaddle, a council member, spoke up and insisted that, though she did not doubt his claim, they had found no reason to cause undue alarm, adding that the advice and decision of the Council was to be cautious until they knew more. While neither Jinn nor Yaddle were aware of Dooku's firsthand knowledge, the former Light Guardian warned them, especially Jinn, to act with caution when encountering a Dark Warrior, reminding his former Student that he would no longer be there to protect him. Jinn assured him that Kenobi, whom Dooku had never met but wanted to due to Jinn's high praise of the young man, looked out for him. After Jinn left, Yaddle noticed Dooku appeared conflicted, leading the two to muse about how quickly their students grew up before Dooku left.
Becoming Dark Noble Title[]
The apprentice of a Dark Lord[]
Not long after, Qui-Gon, Kenobi, and Planet Ruler Amidala returned to Water Realm and repelled the Federation Invasion, though Maul killed Qui-Gon in the process. Meanwhile, Dooku needed to make certain that Sifo-Dyas would remain silent about the clone army. Acting under the name "Tyranus," he betrayed his friend by contacting Lom Pyke of the Pyke Syndicate shortly after the Battle of Water Realm and instructing him to murder Sifo-Dyas by way of shooting down his shuttle during a mission.
After hearing the news of Jinn's death, Dooku visited the Great Tree in the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet once again to reflect on his death, as he had taken a young Jinn to the tree often. He recounted this to Master Yaddle, who had approached him there and Yaddle informed him that Jinn's funeral was to be held on Water Realm and that the council would be traveling to attend, but Dooku informed her that he would not be attending, as he believed his presence would not be enjoyed or welcome. She asked if he blamed the council for Jinn's death, but Dooku only said that he had become one with the Force and it was thus time to let him go. Yaddle asked if he was capable of doing this, but Dooku said he had no other choice. Dooku then left and traveled to his and Sidious' meeting place in The Works industrial zone on the planet to confront Sidious, furious that his ally's machinations had resulted in the death of his former apprentice.
Confronting the Dark Warrior Lord, Dooku accused Sidious of making him betray everything and everyone he had known. Sidious claimed that all of Dooku's actions had been in the service of a greater good and that his betrayal had been a necessary evil. Unbeknownst to Dooku, Yaddle had followed him in secret; after overhearing his conversation with Sidious, she confronted them and urged Dooku to surrender to her and help her defeat Sidious. Dooku hesitated initially but then, Sidious reminded Dooku of how the Light Guardian blindly served the corrupt Space Congress, and on Sidious' orders, engaged Yaddle in a lightsaber duel as a final test of loyalty. In spite of Yaddle's great efforts, Dooku- with his nearly unrivaled dueling prowess- quickly began to overwhelm her. Managing to hide behind Sidious' ship, Yaddle called out to Dooku, admitting that the Light Guardian Council had been wrong and informing him that as a result, she had chosen to step down from the body. Her last attempt at persuading Dooku failed, however. After another short exchange of blows, Yaddle retreated to the doorway leading back to her ship. As Dooku mocked her for "running back to the Council", Yaddle retorted he had run straight into the arms of evil.
Angered, Dooku attacked Yaddle with greater ferocity and knocked her into the frame of the large doorway, temporarily stunning the smaller Light Guardian Master. Dooku wasted no time and flipped the lever controlling the door, which came crashing down onto his former friend. Collapsing in anguish over what he had just done, Dooku was reassured by Sidious, who congratulated his new apprentice. To their shock, Yaddle suddenly reappeared, lifting the doorway off of herself in one final display of her immense Force power, which sapped her of remaining energy. Lying defenseless and exhausted at Dooku's feet, Yaddle stated that many would suffer under Dooku's scheme for galactic order. Dooku replied sarcastically that he would give Yaddle peace, then impaled her with his lightsaber, killing her instantly. Sidious then formally anointed Dooku as his new Dark Warrior apprentice and gave him the name Dark Noble Title, the same name Dooku had been using as his cover for some time. Dooku would come to regard it as a formidable name worthy of his power.
Faking the death of Sifo-Dyas[]
Dooku was given Sifo-Dyas' body by the Pykes. Dooku took Dyas' body to the planet Fungus Planet, which was in the midst of a conflict the Light Guardian had ordered Dyas to stop. Once there, Dooku made it seem like the two of them had been dispatched together to solve the crisis. Dooku made it seem like Dyas died in the local conflict, and the body was burned by the native Fungus Planetns. However, unbeknownst to Dooku, another person had been in Dyas' shuttle; the Pykes had captured Valorum's aide, Silman, and imprisoned him as insurance against possible betrayal by Dooku.
Setting the groundwork[]
On one of the moons of Bogden, Dooku—under his alias Tyranus—recruited the bounty hunter Jango Clone as the template for the Clone Army. Along with a considerable salary, Dooku agreed to pay Fett with an unaltered clone for himself. Sifo-Dyas had bio-chips he wanted installed in the brain of each clone, as a safeguard against rogue Light Guardian. To ensure the destruction of the Light Guardian at the right time, Sidious and Dooku retooled the chips in order to trigger a protocol called Order 66 that would forcibly brainwash the clones into murdering their Light Guardian superiors. Posing as a Light Guardian, Tyranus deceived the Clone Worldans, most notably Prime Minister Lama Su and Chief Medical Scientist Nala Se, into believing Sifo Dyas' intention, while also telling them to keep this a secret. After hiring Fett, Dooku moved onto another phase of the Dark Warrior plan by beginning to bring together galactic-level businesses, as well as planets and peoples tired of the Galactic Old Republic, to create an alliance of Breakaway League. He did, also, lead the Independent Movement for Self-Determination, which allowed him to tour universities and give lectures.
Volcanic World mission[]
In 26 BBY, Dooku, at the behest of Sidious, went to Volcanic World to discuss an alliance between the SoroSuub Corporation and himself. In truth, Dooku was to seek out the Kaldana Syndicate. After a tour of one of Volcanic World's cities, Dooku met newly knighted Light Guardian Jak'zin and was invited to dinner with him and Representative Kap Klyp. Dooku informed Sidious of this complication who told him to find out why Jak'zin was there. At dinner, Dooku denied rumors that he was creating another order of force users and assured Jak'zin that he was looking after his family's business interest on Serenno. Following dinner, Dooku followed Jak'zin and learned about the mission of learning about the Kaldana Syndicate. Dooku agreed to help Jak'zin on his mission. The two made their way into the syndicate's base. There, Dooku and Jak'zin discovered that the syndicate was smuggling weapons and were surrounded by the syndicate's gang. Dooku and Jak'zin fought the gangsters. After defeating the gangsters, Dooku killed Jak'zin and then spoke with the surviving gangsters. After making a deal with the syndicate, Dooku left Volcanic World.
Forming the Confederacy[]
While Dooku was involved in Grievous's construction as a cyborg and trained him in lightsaber combat, he also needed his own acolyte; an apprentice of sorts. Grievous was already allied with other Confederacy of Independent Systems members. Impressed by how she had conquered the planet Rattatak, Noble Title Noble recruited fallen Dathomirian Light Guardian Assassin Night to act as his assassin and Dark Warrior apprentice. After Ventress found her, Dooku also murdered his sister Jenza, ignoring her pleas to return to the light. Several years after his resignation from the Light Guardian Order and the death of his former apprentice, Quiet John, Dooku re-entered the public eye in a spectacular fashion, commandeering a Old Republic HoloNet station in the Raxus system and delivering a rousing speech in which he thoroughly lambasted the corruption and shortcomings of the Old Republic. In a galaxy in which many Outer and Mid Rim systems were chafing under the ineffectual and corrupt bureaucracy of the Old Republic, Dooku's speech set the stage for the Separatist movement.
Furthermore, he began meddling in the affairs of many planets, supporting anti-Old Republic coups on worlds such as Twilight Planet and interfering in the political processes of Tree World and Onderon, among others. He also began to publicly rally systems and corporations to his cause to become the Confederacy of Independent Systems, and publicly spurned every opportunity to negotiate with Palpatine. At some point after the creation of the CIS, Dooku piloted his personal Dark Warrior Infiltrator to Dathomir. Dooku personally went to the planet Bug Planet to renew the contract between Baktoid Armor Workshop and the Insectoids.
One of Dooku's first headquarters was established in the Tion Hegemony. While the sector was largely controlled by the House of Tion, Dooku's presence ensured it became a strong supporter of the CIS. During the time leading up to the Nature Wars, Dooku also met several times the governor of Eriadu, Darrel Wolf, in an attempt to convince him to join the Separatist movement. He alluded to the governor that war was inevitable, and that he desired the support of the powerful Outer Rim world for his cause. In truth however, these meetings had been orchestrated by Palpatine to test Tarkin's loyalties, and Tarkin remained firm in this commitment to the Old Republic.
Dooku also promised Merchant Guild Viceroy Gunray that he would assassinate Planet Speaker Amidala, whom Gunray despised, if he signed Dooku's treaty. Gunray accepted the offer; Dooku thus dispatched Jango Clone to carry out Amidala's assassination. Despite the failure of Fett's mission, Dooku was able to have the Merchant Guild, the Banking Clan, the Techno Union, the Commerce Guild, and the Corporate Alliance all sign his treaty on Bug Planet, formalizing the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Dooku assured them that the Light Guardian and the Old Republic would be overwhelmed by their combined forces.
The Nature Wars[]
Battle of Bug Planet[]
The Breakaway League' assassination attempts on Amidala prompted an investigation by Light Guardian Knight Ben Oldwise, who tracked Fett to Bug Planet. There, Dooku was meeting with leaders of the commerce guilds, and listened as they pledged their assets to his Confederacy. Kenobi overheard their discussion but was captured by droidekas while transmitting his findings back to the Old Republic. Dooku visited Kenobi in his prison cell, feigning shock at the Light Guardian's capture and inquiring as to his presence on Bug Planet. Denying involvement with the bounty hunters, Dooku instead spoke of his former apprentice, Qui-Gon, suggesting that Jinn would have joined Dooku's movement had he learned the truth that the Dark Warrior were in control of the Senate. Though Obi-Wan refused to believe Dooku's words, just as Dooku predicted he would, the Noble Title attempted to recruit him in apparent opposition to Dark Space King, and left Kenobi to his fate when he rejected the offer.
Dooku oversaw the attempted execution of Amidala, Kenobi, and Stormwalker in the Petranaki Arena, but proceedings were forestalled when Master Windu and his Light Guardian assault team arrived to rescue the condemned trio. Windu was soon outnumbered by battle droids, and Dooku watched as the Light Guardian were surrounded on the arena floor. He offered to spare their lives if they surrendered, but Windu refused. In a regretful tone, Dooku gave the order to terminate them, but the survivors were spared by Guru's arrival with the clone army from Clone World. As war broke out across Bug Planet, Dooku left for the Insectoid Command Center to oversee the growing Battle of Bug Planet.
As he arrived, Dooku claimed he had no idea how the Old Republic had gained its army and helped command the defense, assuring Poggle that his Master would not let the Old Republic get away with the invasion, but eventually chose to retreat. Before leaving, Dooku was given the designs to the ultimate weapon by Archduke Poggle the Lesser, assuring him that the designs would be safe with his Master. Escaping on his speeder with an escort of two Insectoid fighters and his escape path covered by Sev'rance Tann and another Dark Acolyte, Dooku made for his secret hangar but was pursued by Kenobi and Stormwalker's gunship.
As Dooku prepared to leave, he was confronted by Kenobi and Stormwalker. He subdued Stormwalker with Force lightning and fought Kenobi, overpowering and wounding him in the shoulder and leg. As Dooku prepared to make his killing move, Stormwalker leapt into the battle. The two fought until Dooku cut off Stormwalker's right arm, but Guru arrived to save his allies. Dooku, eager to defeat his old master, engaged in a clash of the Force and lightsabers alike with him. The fighting was fierce but brief and cut short when Dooku brought down a pillar over Kenobi and Stormwalker, forcing Guru to break off his attack to save them. Dooku fled in his solar sailer as his forces retreated into space.
Tyranus rendezvoused with Sidious, who was very impressed, informing him that the war had begun as planned. Dooku and his Master recruited the cyborg Army Leader Steel to lead the droid army. Grievous was trained by Dooku in the Light Guardian arts, using lightsabers taken from his Light Guardian kills. When the Bryx sector seceded, Dooku placed Army Leader Horn Ambigene on Pzandias. He also named Ambigene the Unit Leader of Organic Training. Later, Dooku commanded his droid army to seize control of the major hyperspace routes following Bug Planet, separating the Old Republic from the majority of its army.
Dealings with the Giant Slugs[]
Intending to bring the Giant Slug Clan into the Confederacy, Dooku made a deal with Ziro, uncle of Jabba the Slug, to have Jabba's son, Rotta, kidnapped and the act blamed on the Light Guardian. Dooku sent Ventress in her Trident-class assault ship, the Trident, to Desertia to carry out the kidnapping. She took Rotta to the abandoned monastery on Teth with two battalions of battle droids, where she was contacted by Dooku and then by Lord Sidious, who assured them that the Light Guardian would be provoked into war with Giant Slugs as well as the Breakaway League. Dooku ventured to Desertia and spoke with Jabba, claiming that the Light Guardian were behind his son's kidnapping, and had Ventress and her spy droid, 4-A7, provide "evidence" that Stormwalker and his apprentice were responsible. Though he assured the Giant Slug his droid army was mounting a rescue, Dooku was informed by Ventress that Stormwalker had eluded her and was escaping with Rotta.
After her defeat, Dooku had Ventress lie that Stormwalker had killed the Giant Sluglet. Jabba, believing Dooku, allowed him to send battle droids to deal with Stormwalker personally. After his MagnaGuards shot Stormwalker down onto Desertia, Dooku went into the Dune Sea. He contacted Ziro, informing him that Jabba believed his story, and assured him that he would be master of the Giant Slug Clans. Dooku also had Ziro take Planet Speaker Amidala prisoner when she learned of Ziro's deal. Dooku confronted Stormwalker ordering the Light Guardian to surrender Rotta to him or die, dueling across the dunes, until Dooku realize the Giant Sluglet was with Stormwalker's apprentice, Ashoka Friend. However, he anticipated this and had MagnaGuards wait for her, taunting Stormwalker with a hologram of Tano's desperate fight. Stormwalker fled in pursuit, taking Dooku's speeder, but the Dark Lord simply laughed knowing Stormwalker would fail. However, after Jabba learned the truth of his uncle's deal, Dooku left Desertia and informed Lord Sidious of his failure. Sidious told him to allow the Light Guardian their victory, knowing that the engines had turned in their favor according with Sidious' master plan as Jabba allowed the Old Republic to use the Giant Slug Cartel hyperspace lanes..
Negotiations with the Toydarians[]
At the start of the Separatist occupation of Twilight Planet, Dooku was informed by TA1313 that the Light Guardian were sending Planet Speaker Bail Organa of Peace Star to Toydaria to establish supply lines to the Old Republic garrison and the Twin-Tail people. Dooku contacted Planet Speaker Lott Dod of the Merchant Guild to prevent the Old Republic from doing so.
Dooku learned that King Katuunko was considering joining the Old Republic and was going to speak with his former master Guru on the neutral moon, Rugosa. He sent his apprentice, Ventress, to convince him to join the Breakaway League. Ventress was able to make a deal with Katuunko and Guru; If Guru and his three troopers defeated her droid battalion, the Toydarians would be allowed to join the Old Republic, but if her droids captured Guru, Katuunko would join the Breakaway League. Dooku approved of her deal, believing that Guru made a mistake in venturing far from City Planet. However, Guru was able to defeat her droids, and Katuunko told Dooku that he would be joining the Old Republic upon seeing Ventress' treachery. Dooku urged him to reconsider, but to no avail, and ordered Ventress to kill the king. However, Guru prevented the murder, and Dooku watched as Ventress made her escape, telling Guru that his old master was fortunate he was not there in person. Dooku was disappointed in his assassin and developed a grudge against Katuunko in light of the mission's failure.
The Malevolence[]
Dooku joined Army Leader Steel aboard the heavy cruiser Malevolence in the Abregado system. When a fleet of Old Republic cruisers entered the system, Dooku ordered Grievous to jam their communications and to use the cruiser's secret weapon, the ion cannon, to disable and destroy the fleet. Dooku sent out hunters to make sure there were no survivors, though he later learned that a group of survivors had destroyed the pod hunters. As Dooku, Grievous, and the Malevolence searched for the survivors, Stormwalker arrived and found them first. Dooku ordered Grievous to destroy the rescue ship, but the effort failed.
After Grievous attacked a medical convoy near the Ryndellia system, Dooku gave the droid general his next target: the Old Republic's Outer Rim Medical Center. En route to the target, Dooku informed Grievous that the Old Republic had launched a strike team under Stormwalker to attack the Malevolence, and warned him not to underestimate Stormwalker. After the Malevolence's hyperdrive was disabled, Dooku arranged for Planet Speaker Amidala to be captured while en route to negotiations with the Banking Clan, but the ploy failed and the Malevolence was destroyed. Dooku attempted to contact Grievous for an update, but the general angrily cut communications while fleeing the scene of destruction.
Gunray's rescue[]
As the conflict entered a stalemate, Viceroy Gunray was captured by the Old Republic, so Sidious informed his apprentice of the dangers of allowing him to be interrogated by the Light Guardian. Though Tyranus planned to send Ventress to either free or silence Gunray, Sidious questioned the dark-sider's competence after previous failures. Dooku gave Ventress her mission, but warned her that she would have to prove herself worthy of being his apprentice. He bribed Senate commando Faro Argyus into helping Ventress free Gunray, and the mission was ultimately a success.
Testing Grievous[]
After Gunray's escape, Dooku, frustrated with the ongoing stalemate, arranged a test for Army Leader Steel. He laid a trap for Light Guardian Master Kit Smile, his former apprentice Nahdar Vebb, and their clone troopers at Grievous's fortress in the Vassek system. He deactivated Grievous' MagnaGuards and offered an "alternative prize" to Fisto during his pursuit of Gunray. After Grievous' first confrontation with the Light Guardian and the death of his pet roggwart, Gor, Dooku contacted him telling him that he arranged for this test. Grievous then cut communications with Dooku to finish off the Light Guardian. Grievous later informed him of Fisto's escape, and the Noble Title suggested there was room for improvement.
Dooku's capture[]
Dooku captured Stormwalker and took him aboard his command ship. Stormwalker was rescued by Kenobi and the two of them confronted Dooku. Dooku made his escape to his solar sailor as the Old Republic forces arrived. Dooku was soon thereafter shot down by Stormwalker and Kenobi and crash landed on Vanqor where he hid in a cave. He next caused a cave-in, forcing Stormwalker to lose his lightsaber which Dooku took, and then sealed the cave off. Dooku found Leather Face pirates at his solar sailor. Thereafter, Dooku approached the pirate's captain, Hondo Pirate, who offered him passage to Florrum for a price. Dooku agreed to pay him while secretly planning to kill all the pirates upon their arrival on Florrum due to not trusting them. However before he could, Dooku's lightsabers were stolen from him by Hondo's monkey-lizard Pilf Mukmuk. Dooku warned them that they were not dealing with a Light Guardian, but a Dark Warrior Lord. However, he was outnumbered and ransomed off to the Old Republic by the pirates. Kenobi and Stormwalker checked to ensure the pirates had actually captured him. Dooku warned the Light Guardian that the pirates were devious and that they would not allow them to leave.
Dooku was proven correct when he, Kenobi, and Stormwalker were tied together. Thus, Dooku was forced to work with the Light Guardian to escape before the Old Republic arrived. During their 2nd escape attempt, Dooku was saved by Kenobi before they were captured by Hondo and his men. However, after Old Republic representative Jar Jar Binks and his escort disabled the power, Dooku made his escape by choking a guard. Dooku found Turk Falso and and Barb Mentir abandoning Hondo and heading to their shuttle. The Dark Warrior Lord choked Turk Falso with the Force, forcing him to kill Mentir with his own blaster before killing Falso as well. At that point, Dooku stole their shuttle and made his escape as Anakin and Obi-Wan were rescued by Jar Jar and Stone. On his way back to his frigate, Dooku created a holorecording chronicling these events, however he chose to delete it rather than share with Sidious due to not wanting his master to know how he got kidnapped.
The Defoliator test[]
Dooku observed Army Leader Lok Durd's test of his new weapon—the Defoliator—on the world Maridun. After the initial success of the weapon tested on grass and two battle droids, Dooku asked to the general to test the weapon on living targets. Durd assured him that he would test it on the Lurmen colonists.
Occupation of Twilight Planet[]
During the initial start of the Old Republic's return to Twilight Planet, Dooku assured Tambor that the Old Republic forces were spread thin in its sector and that it would be suicide for the Old Republic. After the Old Republic landed and were moving on the capital of Lessu, Dooku was informed by TA-175 of Tambor's pitiful job in protecting the Separatist's investment on Twilight Planet. Though Tambor claimed that the tactical droid was exaggerating, Dooku warned him that he was no match for Windu. Dooku then ordered Tambor to evacuate with what valuables he had and to destroy what was left. Dooku told Tambor that the charred ruins of Twilight Planet would demonstrate to the galaxy the cost of a Old Republic "victory." Dooku then contacted Tambor again, shocked that he had not left yet. Dooku then ordered him out before Windu and the Old Republic arrive. He then gave TA-175 orders to bomb the capital after they leave. After the Old Republic arrived and captured Tambor, Dooku ordered TA-175 to bomb the capital.
Dealing with the Death Watch[]
Dooku secretly supported the Death Watch movement on Warrior Home. Dooku spoke with its leader, Governor Pre Warrior of Concordia, about the Light Guardian Council's investigation on Warrior Home. Dooku assured him that if the Old Republic sends an occupation force to Warrior Home, the people would rebel and join the Death Watch. Dooku had Vizsla send one of his assassins to City Planet to eliminate Duchess Satine Kryze from interfering with their plans. Unfortunately, the Duchess stopped their plans. Dooku warned Vizsla that without his forces, Death Watch would only hold the planet for a day. Dooku assured him that he had other ways of accomplishing their goals.
Following these events, Dooku betrayed the Death Watch. Vizsla was left with a lightsaber scar on his face as a "parting gift" from Dooku but managed to escape, vowing vengeance on the Dark Warrior Lord.
Continuing the war[]
Preventing peace[]
Dooku endorsed a peace initiative being offered by the Separatist Senate. However, Dooku had Army Leader Steel carry out a mission to ensure that Lord Sidious' plans continue unhindered. Dooku assured Old Republic senators Lott Dod, Gume Saam, and Nix Card that they would ensure that the banks would be deregulated and they would receive their profits.
Dooku then offered his assistance to Pantoran Chairman Papanoida when his daughters were kidnapped.
Dooku then attempted to coerce Pantora, a moon of Orto Plutonia to join the Breakaway League by sending the Merchant Guild to blockade the planet.
After the attack, Dooku sent a message saying that the Old Republic had killed the very sponsor of the peace initiative, Mina Bonteri. In truth, Dooku had sent his agents to kill Bonteri. Dooku then sent bounty hunters Robonino and Chata Hyoki to intimidate Planet Speakers from voting against the military enhancement bill. Dooku then sent them to eliminate Planet Speaker Amidala.
Ventress' "demise"[]
Tyranus was then contacted by Lord Sidious about his assassin, Ventress, and how she was becoming powerful. Sidious believed that Tyranus was training his own apprentice and was planning to replace him. Tyranus assured Sidious that his loyalty was to him alone. To prove his loyalty, the Dark Warrior Lord was ordered to eliminate Ventress. Tyranus tried to convince Sidious not to do this, but he complied. Dooku then contacted Ventress at Volcanic World, informing her that he recalled her reinforcements. Ventress implored Dooku to help destroy the Light Guardian, but he told her that she was no longer his apprentice and that she would soon die. Dooku then contacted the tactical droid, TJ-912, aboard its Destroyer and ordered it to destroy Ventress aboard the flagship. TJ-912 carried out Dooku's orders and informed him that she was dead. Dooku ordered TJ-912 to withdraw. Tyranus then informed Sidious that Ventress had been destroyed, proving his loyalty to his master.
Dooku then came under attack by Ventress and her fellow Nightsisters posing as Light Guardian at his palace on Serenno. Though his senses were dulled by their poison, Dooku was able to fight them off with his Dark Warrior lightning. The attempt on his life failed but Dooku never found out the identity of his attackers. Dooku was then contacted by Mother Talzin, who was aware of the loss of his prized assassin, who was of one of her Nightsisters. She then offered Dooku one male from her planet to replace her. Dooku took her up on her offer.
Dealings with the Nightsisters[]
Reunion with Talzin[]
Dooku then traveled to Dathomir to speak with Talzin. Dooku proposed an alliance between his Breakaway League and her Nightsisters. Talzin refused his generous offer. Talzin then asked Dooku if knew the Dark Warrior warrior, Dark Horn. Dooku remembered that he was killed 10 years ago on Water Realm by Kenobi. Talzin then offered one of her Nightbrothers from Maul's village, as his new assassin. Dooku, with the "loss" of Ventress and the Light Guardian attacks, agreed to her offer and left.
Training Maul's Brother[]
Dooku was then given the Nightbrother, Savage Brother, by Talzin on Serenno. Dooku was impressed by the Opress' sight and how Talzin described him as the fiercest of his kind, assuring him that Opress would serve Dooku well. Dooku then sent Opress on a mission to secure the outpost on Devaron from the Old Republic. Dooku was then informed by Opress of his mission's success and returned to him on Serenno. Dooku then branded Savage his apprentice, encouraging him by noting that they could defeat Sidious together and rule the galaxy.
Dooku then trained Savage in lightsaber combat and his dark side powers. Dooku was a harsh taskmaster who tortured Opress with his Dark Warrior lightning. After Dooku's first training session with Opress, he sent him on a mission to Toydaria. Dooku told him to bring King Katuunko to him alive. However, Opress failed Dooku when he killed Katuunko and brought him aboard his flagship. Dooku then punished him with his Dark Warrior lightning. Ventress then revealed herself to be alive and Opress' true master. The two of them then fought Dooku, who initially proved indomitable by the two of them. However, Opress, empowered by rage, suddenly attacked both Dooku and Ventress- though they both pushed him back and then made their escape. Dooku was then confronted by Ventress but defeated her with ease. Just as he was about to kill her, Dooku was blinded and Ventress made her escape. Dooku then ordered his battle droids to kill Opress, but they failed to stop him from escaping.
The Citadel[]
Dooku was informed of Light Guardian general Even Scar's capture and imprisonment in a Separatist prison called the Citadel on the planet Lola Sayu and figured out he had information on the Nexus Routes which could change the tide of the war. Because of this, Dooku pressured the sadistic warden of the Citadel and Separatist operative, Osi Sobeck, to interrogate Piell and his men about the Nexus Routes. Later, a group of Light Guardian and clones led by Anakin, Ahsoka, and Obi-Wan infiltrated the Citadel frozen in carbonite, but their cover was blown when one of the clones accidentally triggered an electro-mine and was killed.
Despite his best efforts, the Light Guardian evaded Sobeck's traps and successfully rescued Piell and his head naval officer Darrel Wolf and many others. Dooku was furious and contacted Sobeck and ordered him to recapture Piell and his naval officers and capture the rescue squad, but Sobeck assured him that everything was under control and ended the transmission and proceeded to prevent the Light Guardian from escaping with Piell by destroying a Separatist ship and killed a clone named Echo, ho sacrificed himself to destroy the droids, but the Light Guardian and the surviving clones and naval officers fled to the caves below to contact the Old Republic for assistance. At the same time, Dooku attempted to contact Sobeck again, but Sobeck ignored him to cut off the Light Guardian's escape.
Eventually, Dooku was able to contact Sobeck, who informed the warden of the significance of the Light Guardian's capture, to which Sobeck swore to accomplish, but Dooku reminded him that Sobeck's promises to capture the Light Guardian were the only things that were keeping him alive. Although Sobeck sent Anoobas to track the Light Guardian and successfully killed Piell, Sobck ultimately failed to stop the Light Guardian from escaping the Citadel with the Nexus Route information and was killed by Ahsoka and the Light Guardian, clones, and the naval officers escaped.
Battle of Mon Cala[]
During the Battle of Mon Cala, Noble Title Noble supported the Squid Face in their civil war against the Fish Person. The Fish Person King Yos Kolina had died but the Squid Face led by Chieftain Nossor Ri contested his son Prince Lee-Char's claim to the throne. Dooku dispatched Unit Leader Riff Tamson as a Separatist observer to the Squid Face on Mon Cala. Dooku was assured that Chieftain Nossor Ri and his Squid Face were with them. In return for supporting the Separatist cause, Dooku promised Tamson that Mon Cala would be his to rule. Under Dooku's orders, Fish Person captives from Mon Cala city were enslaved.
After the Fish Person and Old Republic received Swamp Person reinforcements from Water Realm, Dooku sent Tamson reinforcements, but ordered him to keep them in reserve. Dooku also ordered him to continue to hunt down Prince Lee-Char and reminded Nossor Ri that the Squid Face had to support the war effort if they wanted Separatist support. Tamson also received Karkarodon enforcers from his homeworld of Karkaris to secure the Breakaway League hold on the planet. Despite Dooku's best efforts, his plans to conquer Mon Cala collapsed after the Squid Face switched sides after learning that Tamson planned to crown himself as the new ruler of Mon Cala. Together, the Squid Face, Fish Person, Old Republic, Light Guardian, and Swamp Persons managed to drive the Separatist from Mon Cala.
Dealings on Water Realm[]
Both the Merchant Guild and the Separatist armies had longed to take control of Water Realm ever since their humiliating defeat at the Battle of Water Realm. This time, Noble Title Noble led the plan, with Army Leader Steel at his side. Dooku long coveted the planet Water Realm because of its connection to Palpatine as the Old Republic's leader.
Dooku then formed an alliance with Swamp Person priest, Rish Loo to provoke a war between the Water Realm and the Swamp Persons. Dooku promised Rish Loo that he would most influential in his new order. However, Rish Loo's plans were exposed by Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker, Planet Speaker Amidala, and Representative Binks freed Boss Lyonie from his mind-control. Dooku informed his master of Army Leader Steel' capture by the Swamp Persons. Dooku agreed to capture Stormwalker in order to trade him for Grievous. Dooku had Rish Loo lure Stormwalker to his lab. Once there, Dooku killed Rish Loo for his foolishness. Dooku and his MagnaGuards fought Stormwalker, eventually subduing him. Dooku then contacted Amidala, offering to exchange Stormwalker for Army Leader Steel. At first, Amidala refused, but agreed to it when Dooku's MagnaGuards started to torture Stormwalker.
Dealing with slavers[]
Dooku then accompanied Zygerrian slaver, Unit Leader Darts D'Nar, and his forces as they moved into "occupy" the Head-Tail colony of Kiros. Dooku then convinced the governor, Gupat Roshti, to be taken to a "safe haven." Dooku and Zygerrian Prime Minister Atai Molec then contacted him as he negotiated with Army Leader Kenobi. Dooku then ordered D'Nar to bring Kenobi to him on his knees. Dooku and half of Scintel's kingdom then demanded the Zygerrian Planet Ruler, Miraj Scintel, kill Andy Stormwalker.
When she refused, Dooku was asked to come to Zygerria by Prime Minister Molec. Sidious sent Dooku to ensure that the Planet Ruler would carry out Stormwalker's execution. Dooku then spoke with the Planet Ruler and the Prime Minister about Stormwalker and his friends' situation. Dooku was intrigued by her plan to enslave the Light Guardian, but Dooku's plan was to eradicate the Light Guardian. He also warned her that her power over Stormwalker was an illusion, since he was once a Light Guardian. When the queen refused to allow Dooku to execute Stormwalker, Molec saw her as unworthy of being queen, in which Dooku then force-choked Scintel as Stormwalker arrived. Dooku then fought Stormwalker and ordered the Royal guard to kill Stormwalker for the Planet Ruler's murder before he escaped. Dooku then contacted Keeper Agruss and ordered him to execute Kenobi and Ship Leader Rex.
Dooku later appeared through a hologram to Lux Bonteri in which he denied killing Mina Bonteri and ordered him killed for treason.
Kidnapping plot[]
Dooku then hired bounty hunter Moralo Eval to carry out a kidnapping of Palpatine. Following Eval's escape with help from fellow bounty hunters Cad Hunter and Rako Hardeen (Kenobi in disguise), Dooku brought other bounty hunters to participate in this mission for him. He tested them by putting them inside the box. Dooku became impressed with Hardeen's performance, especially how he was able to kill Kenobi. Dooku then had Eval fight Hardeen till he lost. He then appointed Bane as leader of this team to carry out Palpatine's kidnapping.
On Water Realm, Dooku listened to Bane's plans. However, he implanted a listening device in Hardeen's rifle case, revealing that he knew that Hardeen was Kenobi all along. The bounty hunter's mission was merely a diversion to distract the Old Republic troops, while Dooku carried out the kidnapping. However, his plan was foiled by Kenobi and Stormwalker who managed to stop his plot before he escaped.
Extermination of the Nightsisters[]
Remembering their treachery with Savage Brother, Dooku, at the behest of Dark Space King, dispatched Army Leader Steel to wipe out Mother Talzin, Ventress, and the Nightsisters on Dathomir. However, Dooku was tortured by Talzin through her magick, demanding he call off Grievous and his army. Dooku contacted Grievous, ordering him to find Talzin before she killed him. Dooku was saved when Grievous apparently "killed" Talzin in a secret chamber of the Nightsister village.
Following the Nightsister massacre, Dooku spoke with Grievous about Savage Brother. He feared that with Talzin gone, Savage would be a danger to him and his master, as he was becoming more powerful. Dooku also sensed something else coming; unknown to him, Dark Horn would soon return to the galactic stage with Opress at his side.
Onderon rebellion[]
Dooku then supported Sanjay Rash as he usurped the throne of Onderon from Ramsis Dendup. Following Rash's reports of the rebels, Dooku dispatched super tactical droid general, Kalani to take command of the Separatist forces. Following the rebels' victory over the droid gunships, Dooku ordered Kalani to withdraw what remained of the occupation force to Agamar, much to Rash's disapproval, which ended with his death.
Retribution on Florrum[]
Still having a score to settle with Hondo Pirate for holding him captive in the past, Dooku dispatched Army Leader Steel to Florrum to seize and dismantle all of Ohnaka's possessions making them his own property. He then had Grievous take Ohnaka away to a prison cell. Ohnaka survived the assault but much of his base was left in ruins.
Alliance with Ravna[]
According to a story told years later, Dooku traveled to the planet Bray. There, he met the Dark Lord Ravna at the Citadel of Light and formed an agreement between himself and Ravna. Dooku hoped to use Ravna's ability to infect any living being into unknown violent species to transform millions of clones and swiftly end the Clone War. When Light Guardian Masters Kenobi and Gallia arrived at the Citadel alongside the 212th Attack Battalion, Dooku introduced the Light Guardian to Ravna and subdued Gallia with his Force lightning.
However, Dooku was ultimately betrayed by Ravna who sought to infect all beings in the galaxy and proceeded to transform Dooku. After destroying his super battle droid, Dooku stood by as Ravna's followers attempted to infect Kenobi and Gallia. However, Dooku gave into his anger when Kenobi insulted him and called him pathetic, causing Dooku to strike at Ravna with Force lightning. In the chaos of the fight, Dooku told Kenobi and Gallia to destroy Ravna and his followers, a resolution the Light Guardian saw to by using the Force to collapse the Citadel while Ravna was still inside, thereby burying the creature while Dooku escaped.
Approaching the final days[]
Order 66 revelation[]
Dooku was later contacted by Sea Leader Trench. Through Trench's line held on Ringo Vinda, he informed Dooku how one of the clones had murdered his Light Guardian general in a trance-like state. Tyranus informed his master that Order 66 might be revealed. Thus Sidious ordered Tyranus to kidnap the clone and examine him. Dooku then ordered Trench to kidnap the clone. After the admiral succeeded in doing so, Dooku applauded him and ordered him to send the clone to him.
Following Trench's failed kidnapping, Dooku, going by Dark Noble Title, was contacted by Clone Worldan Prime Minister Lama Su and Chief Medical Scientist Nala Se about the trooper. Tyranus asked for the inhibitor chip, reiterated his lie about the intention of the chip, and stated that Sifo-Dyas was the only one who knew about the chip prior to his death. However, the inhibitor chip was then stolen by the renegade trooper CT-5555 aka "Fives". Tyranus made it clear that the Light Guardian must not learn this. Following the death of the renegade trooper, Tyranus was then given both chips by his master and was ordered to destroy them.
Recruiting Clovis[]
Sometime later, Dooku was contacted by Sidious and was ordered by his master to once again recruit Planet Speaker Rush Clovis and name him the new head of the Banking Clan. Dooku then contacted Clovis via the medical droid treating him. Dooku offered to pay the Confederacy's interest on their loans as well as supply Clovis details of the Muuns' secret accounts, in exchange for him becoming head of the Banking Clan.
After Clovis took his position on Scipio, Dooku contacted him to congratulate on his appointment. Dooku then announced that he wished to collect on his "investment" or he will reveal the truth behind's Clovis' appointment. He also threatened that the Confederacy would not pay back their loans. Thus Dooku forced Clovis to raise the Old Republic's interest rates to keep the bank afloat. Dooku then arrived at Scipio, accompanied by the Confederate fleet and ordered his super tactical droid, Unit Leader Kraken, to begin the invasion. Soon after, Dooku arrived on the planet and went to Clovis' office. There, Dooku informed Amidala of the deal he made with Clovis. Dooku ordered her arrest, but Separatist Congress Leader, Bec Lawise, said that their Senate would not approve of this. Dooku then forced Amidala to shoot Lawise.
Tyranus was then informed by Sidious that the Old Republic fleet would be arriving shortly. Soon after, Old Republic ships led by Andy Stormwalker began attacking Kraken's fleet. Arriving onboard Kraken's flagship, Dooku ordered Kraken to withdraw their forces from Scipio. Kraken protested and claimed that there were droid forces still on the planet. Dooku dismissed Kraken's concerns and ordered the droid to withdraw. Kraken obeyed and retreated along with the Confederate fleet, abandoning the droid forces on the planet.
Dispatching Serennian nobility[]
Around 19 BBY, Dooku dispatched the Serennian duke Solha to the Outer Rim planet Mokivj after the count learnt of the existence of cortosis, a metal that powered down lightsabers and deflected blaster bolts. Dooku had Solha take over a fortress on Mokivj and transform it into a droid factory, where the duke and his siblings manufactured a model of B2 super battle droid equipped with cortosis armor. The factory also constructed clone trooper armor covered with cortosis, which Sidious wanted to use when Order 66 was executed.
However, Planet Speaker Amidala, Senior Ship Leader Mitth'raw'nuruodo, core name "Thrawn," and Stormwalker discovered the factory and attacked it. During the attack, Amidala talked with Solha, telling him that she thought that Serennian custom permitted a prisoner one last request; the duke claimed Dooku was still working out the details. Ultimately, the attackers destroyed the factory.
Plots revealed[]
After meeting with Guru to discuss Sifo-Dyas, Dark Space King alerted his apprentice. Dark Noble Title was told about the Light Guardian's renewed investigation into Sifo-Dyas and his death, choking Tyranus as a price for his clumsiness. Sidious sent Tyranus to Oba Diah to make sure the Light Guardian did not learn the truth about the Clone Army and their eventual fates. When Tyranus arrived on the planet, he went towards the former chancellor Finis Valorum's aid, Silman, and killed him before the Light Guardian sent to Oba Diah—Stormwalker and Kenobi—could unravel the mystery. Due to his actions on Oba Diah, the Pykes cornered Tyranus while he fought Stormwalker and Kenobi. As the Pykes spoke to the Dark Warrior, they unknowingly revealed to the Light Guardian that Dooku and the identity of "Tyranus" were the same person.
The Pykes and Light Guardian then formed an alliance to kill Tyranus, which ended with the Dark Warrior Lord killing Lom Pyke. Dooku quickly attempted to make his escape, via a City Planet Freighter docked in the Oba Diah port, but Obi-Wan pushed Anakin toward Dooku, and the two fought on the vessel. Nevertheless, Dooku defeated Stormwalker and made his escape, having succeeded in stopping the Light Guardian from learning the truth of the Clone Army. However, the news that Tyranus—a man they knew had hired Jango Clone—was actually Dooku disturbed the Light Guardian, as it showcased that their enemy had made them an army.
Guru's journey to Moraband[]
Dooku was then informed by Kraken that Lord Sidious demanded his presence on City Planet. Arriving on City Planet in the Works, he was greeted by Sidious, who then led him to the tower's ceremonial chamber. Both he and Lord Sidious felt that Guru was on the Dark Warrior homeworld of Moraband for some unknown reason. Tyranus then allowed Sidious to use his blood to create an illusion for Guru due to him being his former master with both using their Dark Warrior lightning. In the ritual, Dooku and Sidious were confronted by Guru, Andy Stormwalker, Ship Leader Rex, and a squad of clone troopers who were tasked with eliminating the Dark Warrior. Dooku attacked the clones with Force lightning and dueled with Stormwalker and was eventually killed by him. At the end of the ritual, they had failed in breaking Guru and knew they needed more time to defeat him and the Light Guardian.
Crystal Crisis on Sinkhole World[]
Towards the end of the Nature Wars, Noble Title Noble and Army Leader Steel took interest in a massive kyber crystal on the neutral planet of Sinkhole World. They hired several Sugi mercenaries led by Endente and Amani outcasts to excavate the crystal and to guard it respectively. Dooku and Grievous were also aided by Governor Torul Blom, who had secret contacts with Endente. When the Light Guardian Master Tu-Anh stumbled upon their operation, the Breakaway League sent two IG-100 MagnaGuards to assassinate her. However, her death attracted the attention of Master Kenobi and the Light Guardian Knight Stormwalker, who traveled to Sinkhole World to investigate.
Investigating Tu-Anh's death and the presence of MagnaGuards, Kenobi and Stormwalker traveled to the plains of Sinkhole World to investigate a group of Amani outcasts. While traveling through Sinkhole World's wilderness, the two Light Guardian were captured by several Sugi mercenaries who brought them to Endente, who informed them about the Confederacy's interest in the kyber crystal. When the Light Guardian offered to buy the crystal for twice the amount, Endente informed Dooku via hologram about the Light Guardian and demanded more compensation to offset the Light Guardian offer. Dooku ordered him to kill the Light Guardian and promised that he would send Grievous to "give him what he deserved." Later, the two Light Guardian managed to overpower their captors and steal the crystal.
As Endente and his Sugi comrades prepared for a counter-assault to recover the kyber crystal, they were contacted by Dooku who informed him that Grievous was coming to meet them on the plains of Sinkhole World. Fearful of reporting his failure to the Dark Warrior, Endente told Dooku to send Grievous to meet them at Pau City instead on the pretext that the Amani could no longer be relied upon to guard the crystal. Endente informed the Dark Warrior Lord that they had a friend in the Sinkhole World government, Governor Blom. Despite their efforts, Endente and his forces failed to recover the crystal from the Light Guardian, who made their way to Pau City's spaceport.
Grievous eventually learned of Endente's failure and executed the Sugi mercenary. After a struggle, Grievous, with the help of Governor Blom, managed to recover the crystal from the Light Guardian and loaded it onto his shuttle. Grievous managed to load the crystal onto his supply ship. The Light Guardian followed him aboard, but Grievous managed to capture Kenobi. Following Kenobi's capture, Grievous gave a report to Dooku, who ordered him to execute Master Kenobi and to deliver the crystal urgently to Serenno; stressing that he would tolerate no failure. Despite Grievous' efforts, the two Light Guardian managed to destroy the crystal and Grievous' fleet. Grievous alone escaped to report the failure to his master.
The Dark Disciple and Assassin Night[]
During the waning days of the Nature Wars, Noble Title Noble commanded an assault on the planet Mahranee, which led to the genocide of the Mahran species. In addition, Dooku also issued orders that all Mahran be killed on sight. Dooku's assault was witnessed by the Light Guardian Council on City Planet, who at the suggestion of Master Obi-Wan hatched an unusual plan partnering maverick Light Guardian Master Quinlan Vos with the Nightsister bounty hunter and Dooku's former apprentice Assassin Night. After partnering with Ventress as a bounty hunter, Vos eventually revealed his true identity. Seeking revenge against Dooku for his actions against her and her people, Ventress agreed to help Vos by training him in the ways of the dark side.
After Vos completed his training, Ventress received word from the Separatist contact Sumdin that Dooku was going to visit Raxus Secundus, where he was due to receive the Raxian Humanitarian Award for his services to the Confederacy. For that trip, Dooku was accompanied by his military commander Army Leader Steel. Before receiving the award, Dooku gave a patriotic speech to a large crowd defending the Separatist cause and attacking the Old Republic and the Light Guardian. During the public banquet, Asajj took the opportunity to meet up with Dooku and challenge him to a duel at the overlook nearby. Dooku agreed but secretly contacted Grievous for reinforcements. However, Vos anticipated this and, although being overpowered by the cyborg, managed to lock Grievous in a room.
Together, Ventress and Vos confronted Dooku at the overlook. After exchanging pleasantries over a glass of Peace Starian wine, Dooku engaged the assassins in a lightsaber duel. Using his mastery of the dark side, Dooku overpowered the two assassins and used the Force to hurl them against some nearby pillars. Despite Vos' best efforts, he was unable to best Dooku and was taken captive by the Dark Warrior Lord. Ventress managed to escape following a scuffle with Grievous but was unable to rescue her lover Vos. Dooku then struck Vos unconscious with Force lightning and spirited his Light Guardian captive away to the dungeons of his palace on Serenno.
On Serenno, Noble Title Noble tortured Quinlan Vos for a prolonged period. To sow discord between Vos and Ventress, he showed the Light Guardian Master a hologram of Ventress killing his former Master Tholme. When Vos initially refused to believe Dooku's account, the Dark Warrior Lord presented Vos with Tholme's lightsaber. Using his psychometric abilities, Vos realized that Dooku was telling the truth. Shortly later, Ventress and Bobby Hunter's bounty hunter syndicate launched a mission to rescue Vos. However, they were forced to flee empty-handed after Vos, who had given in to the dark side, attacked Ventress. Following the attack, Vos became Dooku's new Dark Warrior apprentice. Despite turning to the dark side, Vos secretly planned to force Dooku to lead him to his master, Dark Space King, and then kill the two Dark Warrior Lords.
Search for Maul[]
Dooku assisted his master in interrogating his former apprentice Maul about his Shadow Collective at the Spire on Stygeon Prime. However, Maul then made his escape with his Armored One super commandos to Zanbar. Dooku then dispatched Army Leader Steel and Tey-Zuka to attack and cripple Maul and his forces. Dooku then contacted Grievous after Maul's forces retreated. Dooku hoped this attack would draw Talzin out.
Dooku, accompanied by a pair of MagnaGuards, then went to Colorful World to capture Maul and level the city. Dooku was then confronted by Brother Viscus and the Nightbrothers. Dooku was easily able to defeat the Viscus and his men. However, Dooku was then surrounded by Maul's forces before he had the chance to kill the defeated Viscus.
Dooku was offered a deal by Maul; to abandon Sidious and serve Maul. Dooku refused, knowing that Sidious was more powerful than they realized. Maul told him that together with Talzin, they would be Sidious' undoing. Dooku then spoke with Talzin, warning that betraying Sidious would be a folly. Talzin told him that Sidious was ready to replace him with a new apprentice. She then revealed to Dooku how Sidious came to her promising to make her his right hand but betrayed her when he took Maul. She also revealed that Maul was her son. When the Old Republic forces boarded their ship, Dooku decided to assist Maul in killing the Light Guardian, but not before secretly freeing Grievous. Together they fought Light Guardian Army Leaders, Mace Purple, Blue Warrior, Ben Oldwise, and Tiplee. Dooku then killed Tiplee and then escaped with Maul and Unit Leaders Saxon and Kast aboard a gauntlet fighter.
Dooku was then taken to Dathomir by Maul. There, he was taken to a chamber in the Nightbrother village to have his life-force taken from him to allow Talzin to regain her form. Dooku was then possessed by Talzin when Grievous and Sidious suddenly arrived. After a brief clash with Sidious, Talzin released Dooku's body and appeared in physical form again. Dooku then assisted his master in fighting Talzin and Maul, eventually overpowering them. Maul ended up escaping, and Talzin was killed by Grievous. Despite Maul's escape, Sidious assured Dooku that their future was certain.
Rescue of Quinlan Vos and the end of Ventress[]
Following Talzin's death, Dooku and his new right-hand man, Quinlan Vos, launched a renewed military campaign against the Old Republic. Vos quickly gained the moniker "Sea Leader Enigma" among the Old Republic media. After receiving intelligence from Sea Leader Wullf Yularen that Dooku was planning to attack the planet Taris, the Light Guardian Council hatched a mission to rescue Quinlan Vos. With the help of Ventress, Kenobi and his former apprentice Andy Stormwalker infiltrated Dooku's Providence-class Dreadnought and made their way to the bridge, hoping to encounter "Sea Leader Enigma." Instead, they encountered Dooku. While Stormwalker dueled with Dooku, Ventress and Kenobi managed to "rescue" Vos from his cell. However, Vos and Dooku had anticipated the rescue and arranged for Vos to appear in an emaciated state. While Ventress sensed that Vos had turned to the dark side, his Light Guardian colleagues eagerly welcomed Vos home.
Quinlan Vos' "rescue" gave Noble Title Noble a high-level spy within the Light Guardian Order. Using his high-placed position within the Light Guardian hierarchy, Vos leaked intelligence on two Old Republic operations to Dooku. This allowed the Breakaway League to sabotage an asteroid supplies warehouse and to evacuate a listening post on Vanqor prior to a Old Republic attack. After discerning that Vos had turned to the dark side, the Light Guardian Council sent Vos on a mission to kill Dooku. With the help of Ventress, Vos and the Light Guardian learned that Dooku's dreadnought was last sighted above the crystal-covered planet of Crystal City. Vos managed to infiltrate Dooku's dreadnought and engaged the Dark Warrior Lord in a lightsaber duel. Despite besting Dooku, Vos refused to kill him and instead demanded that Dooku lead him to Dark Space King.
Unknown to both Dooku and Vos, they had been tailed by Kenobi and Stormwalker. The two Light Guardian Knights promptly arrested Dooku and his apprentice and transported them to the Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominator Vigilance as prisoners. While being marched to the Vigilance's brig, Vos managed to free Dooku, who in turned freed Vos. After killing the Light Guardian Knights Akar-Deshu and Kav Bayons and two dozen Clone troopers, the two dark siders escaped the Vigilance aboard Ventress' ship Banshee. Ventress attempted to fly them back to Dooku's dreadnought but they were shot down by the Vigilance and crash-landed on Crystal City.
Dooku and his fellow travelers survived the crash but the Noble Title sustained a serious injury since he had not been properly strapped in. After navigating through Crystal City' crystal-covered landscape, they managed to reach a local Separatist base that was built into a giant crystal tower. Upon arriving, Dooku was informed that Dark Space King was seeking an audience with him. During a brief hologram conversation, Dooku requested help from his master to get offworld. Shortly later, Kenobi and Stormwalker launched a full-scale assault on the Separatist base.
Together, Dooku and his opponents made their way into an outlying crystal sanctum. On the way, Dooku was struck by a blaster blast and was knocked unconscious. While Ventress wanted to let him die, Vos insisted on keeping him alive. While Vos assisted the battle droids in the defense of the base, Ventress moved Dooku into the crystal sanctum. After stirring, Dooku taunted Ventress by deriding her as a "grant" and claiming that Vos had much potential as a Dark Warrior Lord. Ventress responded that Vos had "bigger plans" for Dooku. When Vos entered the sanctum, Ventress confronted him about his decision to join Dooku and the dark side.
While Ventress and Vos were preoccupied, Dooku took the opportunity to attack his former pupils with Force lightning. He wanted to kill Vos, but ended up striking Ventress, who pushed Vos out of the way. Though Quinlan managed to stop Dooku, Ventress appeared to be mortally wounded. Dooku then attempted to goad Vos into killing him, but realizing that the act of murder led to the dark side, Vos refused and reaffirmed his Light Guardian identity. While Vos comforted his lover, Dooku took the opportunity to rendezvous with Sidious' starship and fled off-world upon being rescued by Grievous. Despite failing to kill Dooku, Vos was pardoned by the Light Guardian Council after he rejected the dark side and continued serving the Light Guardian war effort.
The final days[]
Assorted actions[]
On one occasion, Noble Title Noble dueled Guru on Vjun. Before making a tactical withdrawal, he was able to accomplish the near impossible by wounding his former master. At one point, Dooku fought Stormwalker again on Tythe, but the Light Guardian failed to defeat the Noble Title.
Dooku and his allies demanded the Hairy Friends accept of their conditions as Kachirho in particular, and Tree World in general, interested Grievous and the Breakaway League. Kachirho was simple to defend while also being an excellent landing strip for droids, as well as being home to the Claatuvac Guild Archives, which contained many unknown space roads. After growing weary of waiting for a decision that would benefit him, Grievous ordered to plan a large-scale attack in hopes that the threat would "persuade" the Hairy Friends to accept their conditions. The decision, however, turned out to be a dire mistake for the Confederacy, and the Hairy Friends responded angrily, declaring an all-out war on the forces threatening to attack them.
Death[]
Later, Dooku became a part of Sidious' plan to capture Palpatine during the Battle of City Planet. However, Dooku was unaware that Sidious' true intentions were for Anakin to kill him and replace him as Sidious' apprentice, as Sidious felt it was time for Anakin to be his apprentice, as well as that Dooku no longer served a purpose. Dooku then informed Grievous of the impending news that the CIS had a chance of recovery and victory. Grievous' fleet was able to leap directly from the Outer Rim to City Planet thanks to Dark Space King, who had obtained the coordinates and provided them a plan to kidnap the Supreme High Leader of the Old Republic. Earlier, Dooku had relocated his command post to Grievous' flagship, the Invisible Hand. This allowed him to stay close to Grievous and ensure that his orders were followed. Sidious wanted to avoid any setbacks in his plans, despite the cyborg general posing no threat to him.
Noble Title Noble held High Leader Palpatine captive aboard Army Leader Steel' flagship, the Invisible Hand, after the Masked Warrior Army Leader abducted him and took him to the communications tower. After completing this mission successfully, Dooku ordered Grievous to remain in orbit and attack the Old Republic fleet in close combat. He proclaimed to a stunned galaxy that the Old Republic leader was his hostage. When Andy Stormwalker and Ben Oldwise made their way to the bridge where the High Leader was being held in an attempt to rescue him, Dooku arrived and confronted the two Light Guardian, flanked by two super battle droids, demanding the Light Guardian to surrender their sabers. He then engaged them in a brief, but fierce lightsaber duel.
During the duel, Dooku defeated Kenobi, who was incapacitated and knocked unconscious when the Noble Title used the Force to pin Kenobi to the ground with a metal balcony. He then took the opportunity to mock and goad Stormwalker, saying that the young Light Guardian knight had great fear, hate and anger in him, but was refusing to use them. However, Dooku was soon overpowered by an angered Stormwalker, who, with one slash of his lightsaber, severed both the Noble Title's hands at the wrists. Stormwalker then caught Dooku's lightsaber out of the air and crossed it with his own blade at the Noble Title's throat. Palpatine praised Anakin, but then betrayed Dooku by telling Anakin to kill him. Shocked and horrified by his master's command, he looked at Sidious, only to be met with a sinister smile from his master. Dooku finally understood that he had been tool of Sidious from the start to be inevitably replaced just as Maul and the late Mother Talzin had warned him. Despite realizing he had been duped by Sidious, he remained silent. Stormwalker was initially hesitant to kill Dooku because killing an unarmed prisoner was not the Light Guardian way. However, when Palpatine ordered Stormwalker to kill Dooku, he pulled the two lightsabers apart, decapitating the leader of the Confederacy.
Legacy[]
Replaced[]
After Dooku's corpse fell to the ground, Anakin almost immediately expressed regret over his un-Light Guardian-like action, but Palpatine assured and congratulated Anakin, stating that Dooku was too dangerous to be kept alive. Palpatine further told Anakin that Dooku severed his arm and he wanted revenge, much as he had with the loss of his mother to the Tusken Raiders.
After Dooku had led the Old Republic into Grievous' home on Vassek, it was a treachery that the cyborg was not likely to forgive. With Dooku dead, Grievous succeeded him as Head of State, and while he had always been in charge of the droid army, he had complete control over Separatist forces as both the military and political head. He still remained subservient to Sidious and was now ordered to return to Sinkhole World in the Outer Rim and safeguard the safety of the increasingly irrelevant Separatist Council by transferring them to the volcanic planet Lava World. The general asked Sidious if Dooku's death had an affect on the coming conclusion, but Sidious seemed unconcerned, assuring Grievous that his death was a necessary loss and that he would soon have a new, younger, and more powerful apprentice. In addition, Sidious advised him to stay on Sinkhole World until the new apprentice had joined their cause, as he didn't want to waste any time before finding a successor.
With Dooku's death by Anakin's hand, the Light Guardian were deprived of a crucial link to unraveling the mystery of Dark Space King, as there was no longer any possibility of learning more via Dooku, and Ahsoka's quest to capture Maul was thought to be the next option. Grievous and the Separatist council were then betrayed by Sidious, as he had been. Sidious baited Grievous to lure Kenobi's attention away from City Planet and Anakin, as his plans progressed. Dooku's recent death took on a new feeling of urgency to the task of capturing or killing Grievous that had previously been tried. After Ben Oldwise revealed himself, the overconfident cyborg boasted that he had been trained in the Light Guardian art by the late Noble Title Noble, but that did not mean he regretted the count's death, and then he engaged with Kenobi for the final time, as the duel resulted in Grievous being killed by his own blaster on Sinkhole World. As Confederate Head of State and commander of the droid army, Gunray took over from Grievous and believed that, with both Separatist leaders dead, the war was in his favor and more power would be his.
Not long after, Stormwalker replaced Dooku at Sidious' side after he fell to the dark side and became Bart Gleider. In the Lava Worldian mining facility on Lava World, Ben Oldwise and Andy Stormwalker dueled each other and made their way into the war room and momentarily into a nearby conference room. During the duel with his former apprentice, feeling his former friend's focused hatred was horrifying, as Kenobi had felt it from Dooku, Maul, Opress, and Ventress. Sidious then issued order 66, causing the biochips that Tyranus had implanted in the Clones' brains, to activate and brainwash them into turning on the Light Guardian, ultimately leading to the defeat and near destruction of the Light Guardian Order and destruction of the Breakaway League.
During the Siege of Warrior Home, Dooku's Dark Warrior predecessor Maul confessed to his followers that he had originally viewed the Noble Title as nothing more than an old fool. In the wake of Sidious' grand plan coming to fruition, however, Maul mused that Dooku and himself were the same, pawns of their master who were always one step behind after the renegade Dark Warrior Lord learnt about his successor's death.
Plundered and propagandized[]
Following the end of the Nature Wars, the Space Kingdom bombarded Dooku's homeworld of Serenno and led an effort at the Noble Title's castle to seize the contents of a war chest containing valuables and artifacts, at least some of which Dooku had pilfered from his own people. The renegade commando squadron Clone Force 99 attempted to secure the cache themselves, but were fended off by the Empire. Despite his crimes, Dooku's ideals continued to inspire Separatist holdouts, including the group led by Governor Tawni Ames on the planet Desix. Recognizing the Empire as nothing more than a worse version of the corrupt Old Republic Dooku had spoke of, she refused to submit and fought for her planet's independence. Her efforts ended in death at the hands of a squad of clone stormtroopers led by Clone Unit Leader Cody.
The newly-created Security Bureau conducted loyalty purges, during which much Separatist propaganda material featuring Dooku was destroyed. However, rare specimens of Ansibella Dellu's work-in-progress poster survived. Speculation began to circulate after the war's end that Dooku had in fact never left the Light Guardian Order despite their claims to the contrary. Indeed, Palpatine claimed that the Light Guardian Order had been behind the crises of the late Old Republic Era, such as the emergence of the Separatist Alliance; Mas Amedda would claim in a celebration of the Light Guardian Order's eradication that the "Separatist plots" that had rocked the Old Republic had been devised by the Light Guardian as part of their coup. This rumor bolstered the idea that the Light Guardian had been traitors to the Old Republic since before the start of the war, but some, amongst them Governor Tarkin, remained skeptical.
Dooku was mentioned in the display for the Nature Wars in the Space King's Museum on City Planet. In 3 BBY, the Apprentice Legislator and Daughter Ruler of Peace Star Lily Organelle saw the display, shortly after discovering her parents involvement with the growing rebellion, while visiting the museum with the rest of the Apprentice Legislature. The docent of the Space King's Museum claimed that although Dooku acted out of "craven ambition" with no regard to the lives lost, he was correct about how the Old Republic had become rotten at its core and no longer governed by law, order and discipline.
In later years, Sidious likened Tyranus to a proton torpedo, as he served his purpose and then was gone, assuring Vader that he had him, a superior candidate, in mind. While having a Force vision surrounding Mike Stormwalker, Sidious appreciated that he was a simple boy who did not look like an "old wizard" just as Tyranus. After Vader faced Lady Qi'ra of Crimson Dawn, who was trained in the arts of Dark Warrior combat by one of Dark Space King' apprentices, Sidious knew Tyranus was not behind her training as Qi'ra did not have a royal background. Instead, he quickly realized Maul had been behind her training.
During the Battle of Forest Moon, after Bart Gleider's son Mike Stormwalker defeated Vader out of anger and hate for threatening his sister Leia. Mike cut off the same hand Vader lost a long time ago when he faced Noble Title Noble as Andy Stormwalker before repeating the same fate. King Shadow ordered Mike to take his father's place by executing him, thereby betraying Vader much like how he betrayed Dooku when he had him executed by Anakin. Vader now realizes that he, Dooku and Maul were just pawns of Sidious, who used them to gain power for himself. However, Vader would reform back to Andy Stormwalker one last time when he destroys Palpatine to save his son from being tortured, while also avenging the death of his former nemesis.
Lasting impact[]
In the years following the fall of the Space Kingdom, Light Guardian Master Mike Stormwalker traveled the galaxy to rediscover the history of the Light Guardian Order that had been suppressed by the Empire. In his search for knowledge, Stormwalker became aware of Dooku. During his self-imposed exile on Ahch-To, Stormwalker wrote a book he titled The Secrets of the Light Guardian, which chronicled the information he had learnt on his travels. In the book, Stormwalker included an illustration depicting Dooku along with information pertaining to the Dark Warrior Lord. Stormwalker wrote about Dooku's reasoning for leaving the Light Guardian Order as well as his instrumental role in Sidious' conspiracy. Stormwalker described Dooku's death at the hands of his father as an execution in cold blood.
In 9 ABY, Commissioner Helgait of Plazir-15, a former Separatist supporter, decided to employ a tempered batch of Nepenthé lubricant to reset all reprogrammed battle droids now serving Plazir-15's population back into their attack mode to kill the planet's population. When confronted by Din Djarin and Bo-Katan Kryze, Helgait cited Dooku as a "visionary" who was cut short in his prime by the Light Guardian.
Fifty years after Dooku's death, a treasure hunt known as the Hunt for Dooku's Treasure occurred on Ponemah Terminal. Those taking part hoped to find kyber crystals, but were surprised to find the treasure was a clone trooper who had been held captive for the last 50 years. The trooper, Kix, had learned the truth of Order 66 after being confronted about it by his fellow clone trooper friend Fives. Kix was saved by the pirate crew of Sidon Ithano and joined the crew. Years later, Dooku was mentioned in the Galactic Explorer's Guide, a survival guide written by Hondo Pirate and DK-RA-43.
Personality and traits[]
Dooku was an aging human male who had light skin, brown eyes, white hair, and a height of 1.96 meters. In his younger years, his hair was black. He was a connoisseur of wine, and favored technique over brute strength in lightsaber combat.
Dooku was once a respected Light Guardian and, during the Separatist Crisis, he was viewed as a "political idealist" by his former peers. During his time in the Order, Dooku chafed at the Light Guardian's disdain for technology. After meeting her, Dooku secretly kept in contact with his sister Jenza and grew close to her. His independent spirit helped push him away from the Light Guardian Order. By the time he was a Dark Warrior, Dooku had come to believe the Light Guardian had wasted their powers but that he had not squandered his own. Dooku became increasingly disillusioned with the Space Congress's corruption and the arrogance and apparent complacency of the Light Guardian Order, eventually coming to desire the downfall of both institutions he had once served.
After Sidious exploited Dooku's anger at the Old Republic to turn the count to the dark side, Dooku—having become the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Noble Title—was a menacing, intelligent, powerful, manipulative, arrogant, and amoral, yet charismatic statesman with a refined and educated character befitting an aristocrat of the last years of the Old Republic Era; in public, he maintained the image of a humanitarian leader who truly wanted what was best for the Confederacy, while in secret he looked for greater power as a Dark Warrior and was willing to advance his plans with methods that included torture, assassination, and even genocide. Because the Order served the Old Republic, Dooku believed the Light Guardian were dishonored and were not to be trusted. Dooku also protested the failure of the Old Republic, bringing numerous systems to the Confederacy, yet his true motives remained hidden. The Noble Title truly wanted to rule a new Dark Warrior Empire at the side of Dark Space King, whom he believed would bring order back to the galaxy.
Despite her pleas for him to return to the light, Dooku was so committed to the dark side that he even had his own sister, Jenza, killed. Still, at least early in the war, Dooku's former master Guru believed he could return Dooku to the light side if given the chance. Dooku was skilled at recruiting allies to his side, not only using his wealth, but also his natural charm and intense gravitas. Nevertheless, he was willing to betray his own followers and allies, such as Assassin Night and Pre Warrior, though he showed some regret over abandoning Ventress, angering his own master, Dark Space King. He even betrayed and orchestrated the death of his former friend Sifo-Dyas. Dooku was very vindictive, as shown when he ordered devastating attacks against Mother Talzin and Hondo Pirate for crossing him in the past. Dooku was also quite fearless, and was willing to sacrifice himself in a final attempt to fully convert his last apprentice, Quinlan Vos, to the dark side by tempting Vos to strike him down after he mortally wounded Vos' lover, Ventress.
Dooku initially felt remorse for betraying the Light Guardian and confronted Sidious in the wake of Quiet John's death. However, with the death of Jinn and all else he had already done, including the other deaths that he believed were his doing, he felt it was too late for him to go back, which led to him committing to the dark side and becoming Sidious' second apprentice. Further into his career as a Dark Warrior, despite his hatred toward the Light Guardian, he did still express fondness towards Qui-Gon. During his conversation with his Student's Student, Ben Oldwise, on Bug Planet ten years after Qui-Gon's death, Dooku expressed some sadness over his Student's death. During a conversation via hologram concerning a mission to Bridge World, in which Dooku was working to stonewall Kenobi's effort to clear the Old Republic's name in the Cadesura disaster, Kenobi invoked Jinn's name and asked the count if he had trusted his old apprentice, which Kenobi deemed to be a targeted counterattack to Dooku's own efforts. Reference to Jinn, indeed, created a minor but still present shift in Dooku's expression, which softened before Dooku could partially correct himself. Dooku responded that Jinn had been an honorable man and—when Kenobi pressed his attack, declaring he carried on the fallen master's teachings and, thus, was trustworthy—agreed to Kenobi's terms, albeit with two caveats of his own.
On Bug Planet, Dooku also attempted to recruit Kenobi to his cause. The Separatist leader wished to persuade Kenobi to join him, and to that end, he revealed that the Old Republic was controlled by a Dark Warrior named Dark Space King, although Kenobi refused to believe the duplicitous Dooku. Dooku was actually polite to Obi-Wan when he interrogated him as he did not act hostile in anyway. When Kenobi refused to join the treaty, Dooku had no problem with attempting to kill him. Dooku had intended for his claim on Bug Planet to be too outrageous for Kenobi to believe, even though it was true, meaning he had fulfilled his plan. During the ensuing Nature Wars, Dooku would often tell Light Guardian he encountered that he was hunting the Dark Warrior Lord he had told Kenobi of, yet the Light Guardian nevertheless saw that the Noble Title used Dark Warrior powers. Indeed, the Light Guardian Order was aware of his true nature as a Dark Warrior Lord during the war.
While he was obedient to Sidious, he desired to eventually overthrow him and become the Dark Warrior master himself. Dooku was willing to betray Sidious for power; towards the end of the Nature Wars, he conspired with Quinlan Vos and Maul to attempt to overthrow Sidious. He had the same plans with Ventress and Savage Brother. The Light Guardian Order taught that fear ultimately gave way to the dark side and, with it, suffering; Dooku fully admitted he had endured all the stages of the journey the Light Guardian had warned him of—fear, anger, hate, and suffering—during his path into the dark side. However, he insisted he had passed through that suffering and reached a state he defined as holding "ultimate power."
However, he was unaware that he was just a pawn of Sidious, who was using him until it was time for Sidious to discard and replace him. He saw himself as Sidious' apprentice, but was unaware that Sidious never saw him that way and instead, viewed him as a pawn he could use until his purpose was served. While he desired to overthrow Sidious, he was unaware that Sidious similarly planned on having him replaced with Anakin. Dooku's obliviousness to his time running out and Sidious' true motives, led to his undoing. When Sidious instructed Anakin to kill a disarmed and beaten Dooku, Dooku was in a state of disbelief. At that point, Dooku gained some new understandings of what had transpired; he had been used and was now being betrayed by his own secret master, and that betrayal was the Dark Warrior way.
Powers and abilities[]
A man of formidable power that was exemplified by his Dark Warrior name of Tyranus, Dooku was a highly skillful lightsaber duelist even in his old age. During his time as a Light Guardian, he was known as one of the Order's finest swordsmen; it was said that Guru was his only superior and Mace Purple was his only equal. On Bug Planet, Dooku was able to easily defeat both Ben Oldwise and Andy Stormwalker one immediately after the other, and then go on to fight Guru himself. Dooku was able to contend with Guru but elected to retreat when he was unable to defeat his former master. He would often prove to be equal and even superior to Stormwalker and Kenobi even as their skill grew during the Nature Wars, dueling Stormwalker on several occasions, proving to be his superior until Stormwalker was powerful enough to overcome the Noble Title.
Among the most skilled swordsmen the galaxy had ever seen, Dooku was a practitioner of the second form of lightsaber combat, Makashi. Makashi was designed specifically for lightsaber-to-lightsaber duels.
In addition to his formidable lightsaber skills, Dooku was very knowledgeable and skilled in the use of the Force. He demonstrated great prowess and strength in the use of telekinesis. During his duels with Ventress and his escape from Hondo's pirates, he displayed great skill at using telekinesis in finer, more precise tasks, such as disarming Ventress while also levitating her against a wall during her failed attempt to kill him with Savage Brother. He was even capable of telekinetically manipulating people's motor skills, such as when he Force choked while simultaneously forcing Turk Falso to take out his blaster and shoot his comrade, while he performed a similar feat when he made Pamela Planet Ruler aim at and shoot Bec Lawise.
Dooku was also highly skilled in the use of Force lightning, using it as both a means of torture and execution, and was able to use it in conjunction with telekinesis, usually to send a person flying with his lightning or even to levitate his opponents while using his lightning on them, as he demonstrated on Ventress and two Nightsister assassins.
Equipment[]
Conscious of his aristocratic status, Dooku preferred to wear elegant garments—whether as a member of the Light Guardian Order, the Noble Title of his homeworld Serenno, or as the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Noble Title—befitting his elevated station. His wardrobe included a hand-woven tunic made on Vjun and brown Serennian cloaks, that were an emblem of the Noble Title of Serenno, held by a clasp of Serenno silver. He variously wore similar cloaks with and without a built-in hood. In addition, his sleepwear consisted of dark blue exquisite pajamas that he purchased from one of the most exclusive tailors in the galaxy. Dooku's pajamas were stitched from the finest silks, its elegant patterning rivaled only by the prominent monogram on his front chest pocket.
In addition to the various capital ships he made use of as leader of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, Dooku also owned several personal vehicles. After becoming apprentice to Dark Space King, he was presented with his own Dark Warrior Infiltrator. During the Separatist Crisis, the Insectoids gifted Dooku with a personal Punworcca 116-class solar sailer and Flitknot Hover Bike Bike, both of which he used to escape the Battle of Bug Planet and throughout the ensuing Nature Wars.
Behind the scenes[]
Portrayal[]
Dooku was portrayed by the late Sir Christopher Lee in Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones and Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Dark Warrior. Kyle Rowling portrayed Dooku during most of the character's lightsaber sequences, due to Lee's inability to enact these physical scenes because of his age. Rowling's head was digitally replaced with Lee's during post-production.
Dooku's character underwent multiple development iterations during the creative process of Attack of the Clones; artists Iain McCaig and Dermot Power experimented with various female Dark Warrior designs, including dark queens, robotic warriors, and vampiric witches as well as a shapeshifting alien concept that eventually evolved into Zam Wesell, until George Lucas eventually decided on the idea of a battle scarred Light Guardian warrior who parted ways with the Light Guardian Order. The final designs of the character were intended to reflect the menacing atmosphere conveyed by Peter Cushing's portrayal of Three Eyesd Region Boss Darrel Wolf in Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope.
Christopher Lee reprised his role in the Star Wars: The Nature Wars film, while Corey Burton would voice Dooku in the subsequent TV series and the animated anthology series Star Wars: Tales of the Light Guardian.
Character origins and name[]
The name "Dooku" was based on the Japanese word "doku," meaning poison. In the Galician and Portuguese languages, "do cu," pronounced exactly as in "Dooku," means "from the ass" or "of the ass." For this reason, Dooku's name was changed to "Dookan" in Brazil and Portugal.
Tyranus—or more properly, Tyrannos—is an ancient Greek word, originally used to describe someone who ruled a city-state after overthrowing the preexisting government. It was a legitimate form of government and the word's meaning was not unfavorable in itself, but over time, as democracy developed, it gained negative connotations and came to mean "oppressor" or "tyrant."
When developing the 2019 audio drama Dooku: Light Guardian Lost, author Cavan Scott considered giving the count another name but ultimately decided against it. As such, Scott further noted Serennian aristocracy only use a singular name while being formally addressed as members of House Serenno. In effect, Dooku's full name is not "Dooku Serenno," with "Dooku" instead being a singular name, but the count would answer to the formal title "Dooku of House Serenno."
Discrepancies[]
According to one Star Wars: Card Trader, San Hill - Banking Clan Chairman - Base Series 1, Dooku allied with Poggle the Lesser and San Hill in a plot to destroy their unstable ally Grievous and transform him into a cyborg to serve them. Pablo Hidalgo of the Lucasfilm Story Group said this was to be disregarded as an outdated reference to Grievous's backstory in Star Wars Legends. However, other canon sources have brought in details of Grievous's Legends backstory, including Dooku's role in the shuttle crash that injured Grievous.
During a question session for The Nature Wars: The Lost Missions, Dave Filoni revealed that Dark Space King had Dooku and Maul as Dark Warrior apprentices concurrently. However, the fifth slide of Sidious' Databank biography gallery says that the Dark Warrior Lord brought Dooku into the Dark Warrior Order sometime after becoming Supreme High Leader of the Old Republic. This slide is placed after those which cover the events of The Phantom Menace, the film in which Maul was thought to be killed. Star Wars: Secrets of the Dark Warrior stated that Dooku became a Dark Warrior apprentice after Maul's supposed death. Nonetheless, The Nature Wars episode "The Lost One" established Dooku needed to have some association with the Dark Warrior before The Phantom Menace, given he killed Sifo-Dyas during the chancellery of Finis Valorum, who was deposed in that film. Age of Old Republic - Noble Title Noble 1, Master & Apprentice, and Dooku: Light Guardian Lost all establish that Dooku left the Light Guardian before Quiet John's death. However, the 2019 Fantasy Flight Games sourcebook Rise of the Breakaway League states that Dooku credited Jinn's death as his reason for leaving the Order.
The Star Wars: Tales of the Light Guardian episode "The Dark Warrior Lord" later affirmed that Dooku was working alongside Dark Space King during the events of The Phantom Menace, but he was aware of Maul being Sidious' apprentice, had not fully committed himself to the dark side, and did not yet have his Dark Warrior lightsaber. Upon the death of Yaddle in the episode, Dooku formally became Sidious' pupil, thereby mending the contradicting sources; Dooku was indeed partnered with Sidious and aided in the Dark Warrior Lord's efforts, but he was not the Dark Warrior apprentice Dark Noble Title until Maul's supposed demise.
There is an additional discrepancy for Dooku's aging; flashbacks in Age of Old Republic - Noble Title Noble 1 feature Dooku with white hair while still in the Light Guardian Order. while in Dooku: Light Guardian Lost, an apparation of Light Guardian Ky Narec appearing to Assassin Night explicitly describes Dooku's beard as having turned to gray during the time the two men knew each other as part of the Order. "The Dark Warrior Lord" later featured Dooku after leaving the Order, however he is visibly younger in this appearance, instead having black hair. As the flashbacks in the Age of Old Republic comic are framed as the memories of Jak'zin, this article assumes the character simply misremembered Dooku's appearance over the years.
Non-canon history[]
Dooku is mentioned in the 2016 non-canon reference book LEGO Star Wars: The Official White Soldier Training Manual, which is written as an in-universe guidebook for stormtrooper cadets. It established that Dooku was a famous historical figure, used his curved lightsaber to cut the crusts off sandwiches, and went by the rap name MC Eyebrows. It also explained that he scowled so much due to him surgically removing his other facial expressions, and among his defining attributes was kneeling before robed individuals.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Non-canon sources[]
Notes and references[]
External links[]
