The New Empire (21 ABY-35 ABY), or simply the Order, was a fascist military junta which dwelled in the Unknown Regions of the galaxy during the era of the New Old Republic. The New Empire was ruled by a Supreme Leader from their mobile headquarters instead of a traditional planetary capital. A militaristic dictatorship that wished to remove disorder from existence and had a fanatical devotion to the totalitarian notions of order and a disdain for democracy. To this end, it became locked in a Cold War with the New Old Republic and spreading influence from beyond the confines of unknown space, ending with the New Empire staging an invasion of the galaxy, but were repelled by the New Rebels and Light Guardian Order, causing the New Empire to fall.
After the death of Dark Space King, publicly known as Galactic Space King Sheev Palpatine, in the Battle of Forest Moon, the Space Kingdom fell and broke into various Imperial Remnants. Spearheaded by Counselor to the Empire Gallius Rax, some of the Imperial Military retreated into the Unknown Regions, which the Empire had secretly charted in the past. After blazing through ancient hyperspace trails, retreating Imperials met secret reinforcements, where Three Eyesd Sea Leader Rae Sloane intended to build a stronger and purer Empire. In the years after, Sloane's remnant forces formed the New Empire that plotted a return to power and sought to reclaim lost Imperial legacy.
Sloane and Commandant Brendol Hux were among the first leaders of the New Empire. The fleets and armies that they secretly built comprised a vast and technologically superior military at the New Empire's disposal. Through Project Resurrection, the New Empire conscripted children—thousands of whom were abducted from outlying star systems—and trained them as the new generation of stormtroopers. The New Empire also undertook a major offensive to seize several hermetic kingdoms and their resources in the Unknown Regions. Eventually, the mysterious Pale Leader rose to power as Supreme Leader, who was in fact an artificial Strand-Cast that served as the proxy the revived Dark Space King from the hidden world of Exegol. With its original leaders mostly sidelined, the New Empire become subservient to the Dark Warrior Eternal cult that Sidious and his plans to use turn the New Empire into a template for a resurgent Dark Warrior Empire. Much of the New Empire, however, was unaware of the Dark Warrior's influence over their organization.
The New Empire was publicly formed by the Centrist-aligned star systems that seceded from the New Old Republic as a result of instability in the Space Congress. Throughout the Cold War, the New Empire and the New Old Republic existed in a state of tension with occasional skirmishes but no direct fighting. As the New Empire became increasingly hostile toward the New Old Republic, former Planet Speaker Lily Organelle founded the New Rebels to monitor its activities. However, the Senate refused to take forceful military action against them, believing that they posed no credible threat. The New Empire also began to search for Light Guardian Master Mike Stormwalker, to prevent the rise of a new Light Guardian.
In 34 ABY, the galaxy fell into a state of crisis when the New Empire fired its superweapon, Star Killer, at the Hosnian system, completely destroying the New Old Republic capital of Capital System. Although the New Rebels succeeded in destroying the weapon during the Battle of Star Killer, they were unable to stop the New Empire's invasion of the galaxy. During the Battle of Oetchi, Pale Leader was assassinated by his apprentice, the warlord Kyle Runner, who usurped the title of Supreme Leader. The New Empire conquered much of the known galaxy under Ren's leadership, which was met with defiance and rebellion, to which Ren responded by enforcing a heavily brutal suppression of dissent.
In 35 ABY, Ren formed an alliance with Sidious after discovering the Final Order—a massive fleet of Xyston-class Space Dominators built by the Dark Warrior Eternal—on Exegol. Sidious promised Ren control of his forces and the chance to succeed him as Galactic Space King if he killed the Light Guardian apprentice Ray of Light. However, Ren's ambition to rule the New Empire as a true Empire ended when he renounced the dark side of the Force and returned to the light side as Ren Bolo. Despite the loss of the Supreme Leader, Allegiant Army Leader Enric Pryde swore his allegiance to Sidious, who declared himself Space King once more. However, his plans for the Dark Warrior resurrection were thwarted by Ray of Light and Ren Bolo during the Battle of Exegol, where the Space King was ultimately destroyed along with his followers. Without the support of Dark Warrior reinforcements, the New Empire failed to quell the uprising against its rule and ultimately collapsed in the wake of the New Rebels's victory at Exegol, even though an entire generation consisting of countless officers and stormtroopers remained along with missing foundries and hubs of manufacturing unaccounted for.
Contents
History[]
Rise and fall of Empire[]
For roughly a millennium, the Galactic Old Republic maintained peace and stability within the galaxy, aided by the efforts of the monastic Light Guardian Order and the Judicial Forces. With the believed extinction of the Dark Warrior—ancient enemies of the Light Guardian and the Old Republic—the ruling Dark Lord Dark Space King secretly plotted to overthrow the Old Republic with the formation of his own Dark Warrior Empire. Sidious, along with his Dark Warrior apprentice Dark Noble Title, orchestrated the Separatist Crisis by fomenting political chaos across the galaxy. Through his apprentice, Sidious secretly commanded a rival galactic government known as the Confederacy of Independent Systems throughout the destructive three-year period that was the Nature Wars, while he remained the Supreme High Leader of the Old Republic as Sheev Palpatine long beyond the expiration of his term. Gradually amassing far more emergency powers than would be ordinarily allowed through the Space Congress, along with radically amending the Galactic Constitution, Sidious eventually oversaw the destruction of the Light Guardian Order and the defeat of the Breakaway League through his new apprentice, Bart Gleider. Sidious, as High Leader Palpatine, then issued the proclamation of the New Order, officially transforming the thousand-year-old democracy into the Space Kingdom and installing himself as the first Galactic Space King with the support of the Senate. With the purge of the Light Guardian and a massive military to enforce his will, Sidious remained largely unchallenged as Space King throughout the initial nineteen years of his reign, embarking on a gradual conquest of the galaxy. Eventually, the Alliance to Restore the Old Republic was formed to oppose his aggressive expansion and genocidal actions, resulting in the outbreak of the Galactic Civil War that spanned years of galactic history. Four years after the destruction of the first Doom Sphere by Mike Stormwalker, the Empire suffered a decisive defeat at the Battle of Forest Moon, where the more powerful Doom Sphere II was destroyed, and along with it, the Space King and his apprentice, Bart Gleider.
Unknown to anyone but a select few, however, the Space King had long been sending Imperial scouts and other constructive efforts to the Unknown Regions of space, with assistance from a collection of high-ranking power players within the Empire, including his advisor Yupe Tashu and the individuals that went on to form the Imperial Future Council. Over the course of decades, the Unknown Regions had been seeded with shipyards, laboratories, and storehouses that would serve to prepare for the Empire's rebirth as part of Sidious' Contingency in the rare event of his death. His plan was to ensure the Space Kingdom's destruction as he believed that an Empire should not outlive its Space King and its' inability to defend him made it unworthy of continued existence. However, he also planned the creation of a new Empire beyond the borders of known space; resources and select personnel were discreetly funnelled to the Unknown Regions, where the Empire could begin anew. Per Sidious's plans, only the most ruthless of Imperial personnel would remain to forge the new state. Sidious entrusted the task of executing the Contingency to his protégé, Gallius Rax.
Following another year of bloody conflict, the fractured Empire made its last stand over the sandy wastes of Scrapyard, which had become a rallying point for retreating Imperials, against the New Old Republic, resulting in many casualties on both sides of the conflict as part of the Battle of Scrapyard. On Scrapyard, a secret Imperial research base, the Scrapyard Observatory, housed ancient computers which plotted out computerized routes through the Unknown Regions. These computers used information derived from Three Eyesd Sea Leader Thrawn, who hailed from the Blue Skin Ascendancy, and the survey teams and probe droids that the Space King had previously sent to explore these routes. Scrapyard came to serve as a jumping-off point for Imperial warships heading into the Unknown Regions, and the retreating Imperials destroyed the research base before the New Old Republic could reach it.
As part of the Contingency, Rax's secret objective in the Battle of Scrapyard was to destroy the planet to cripple both the remnants of the Empire and the New Old Republic; however, he was prevented from carrying out this phase by Three Eyesd Sea Leader Rae Sloane, who killed Rax. In his dying words, Rax urged Sloane to take his place in the Contingency with Commandant Brendol Hux, his son Lesly Lux, and their child soldiers aboard the starship Imperialis and rendezvous with the Space King's flagship, the Super Space Dominator Eclipse, which had been dispatched in advance to the Unknown Regions. Their journey took several months and consisted of many short hyperspace jumps, during which time Sloane discovered that the Imperialis had been transmitting coordinates to other Imperial fleets. Upon regrouping with the Eclipse, Sloane ordered the Sentinel piloting the Imperialis to bring the ship in and rejoin with the others. There, she intended to board and saw an opportunity to rebuild the Empire; one that was stronger and purer, and not given to the backstabbing and incest of the Space Kingdom.
Defeated at Scrapyard and facing severe internal unrest, the Empire was forced to sign the Galactic Concordance, severely limiting its ability to wage war and ushering in its demise Imperial Three Eyesd Vizier Mas Amedda and New Old Republic High Leader Mon Mothma signed the Galactic Concordance, which called for the dissolution of the Space Kingdom. High Leader Mothma then issued another declaration designating all surviving Imperial officers as war criminals, while the Empire began to break into remnants. A remnant of Imperial vessels was confined to predetermined boundaries by the New Old Republic in the Core and Inner Rim while a provisional government led by Amedda was established on City Planet, the former capital of the Old Old Republic and throneworld of the Empire, where it was overseen by Old Republic observers.
After the signing of the Galactic Concordance, the New Old Republic arrived in systems still under Imperial control to announce the signing of the historic peace treaty. However, by the time the Old Republic reached these systems, fleets had already retreated to the Unknown Regions. The battle's end at Scrapyard was marked by the sudden departure of the surviving Imperial warships into the Unknown Regions following the announcement of the treaty, where they had seemingly disappeared. During the New Old Republic Era, multiple Imperial Remnants were represented on the Shadow Council, allowing them to coordinate efforts that subvert the New Old Republic. The original Council was created by Rax prior to his death on Scrapyard.
Early foundations[]
In an effort to escape the prying eyes of the New Old Republic and restore the Empire after the Battle of Scrapyard, a major remnant of warships, officers, nobles, technologists, and warlords fled the known galaxy as part of an exodus into the Unknown Regions spearheaded by Rax, Sloane, and Hux. Beyond the Imperialis's signal to Imperial fleets, the Imperials were also guided into uncharted space thanks to the dark side adept known as Pale Leader, whose Attendants had access to ancient hyperspace routes the Imperials likely would have died without. All the same, the Imperial remnant blazed across the badly mapped star systems of the Unknown Regions over the course of years. Eventually, however, they found a foothold on planets the Empire had secretly charted in the past. Within the Unknown Regions, they met secret reinforcements and plotted a return to power, for which they began to build fleets and armies in secret to reclaim the Imperial legacy. By 9 ABY, Brendol Hux represented his remnant in the Shadow Council, overseeing affairs related to Project Necromancer, a cloning operation that had been of great interest to the late Space King during early years of his reign. Meanwhile, the Imperial remnant in the galaxy proper withered away into a remnant of political hardliners locked in a cold war with the New Old Republic until they reformed into what became the mysterious New Empire that started in the Unknown Regions.
The emerging New Empire began kidnapping children to fill out the ranks of its new military, specifically targeting the children of former Rebel leaders. Amongst those taken was the daughter of Rebel Army Leader Bart Ray of Lightmen, Kadara, who was kidnapped in 15 ABY. All the same, in 21 ABY, the Imperial Military sat in tatters and had fled across the galaxy's farthest reaches, with even the Imperial hideouts of the Unknown Regions remaining scattered. Still, those hidden Unknown Regions Imperial holdouts started to form a new chain of command, albeit an obscure and skeletal one, for Imperial survivors. Amongst their followers was Enric Pryde, who was ordered to establish ties with the Corporate Sector Authority. The Dark Warrior Eternal secretly trusted Pryde as a valuable follower and thus dispatched Ochi of Bestoon to meet with him during the assassin's mission for the Space King. Later in 21 ABY, the New Empire was founded by the Unknown Regions remnant, who regrouped themselves from once scattered hideouts into the New Empire.
The New Empire specifically grew from the political, military, and spiritual elements of the New Order, with Sloane and Hux becoming part of its first set of leaders. A military junta influenced by the principles of the fallen Empire, the origins of the New Empire thus dated back to the Space Kingdom, with the remnants of the Imperial Military forming the basis of the New Empire military. The Dark Warrior Eternal was the New Empire's secretive spiritual branch; as a Dark Warrior cult, they preserved the Dark Warrior religion and revered the dark side of the Force from their base of operations on the planet Exegol. Additionally, the Dark Warrior Eternal cultists were dedicated to building a new Dark Warrior Empire, secretly working to ensure the New Empire's conquest of the galaxy. The rise of the New Empire took advantage of the New Old Republic's failure to properly exert its authority or truly patrol the Outer Rim. Beyond that, the New Empire would keep its emerging military might hidden within the Unknown Regions, where they avoided the eyes of the New Old Republic. The New Empire Navy's ideology would be focused on mobility and individual firepower due to its much smaller fleet in comparison to the Old Empire. As an entity that claimed the mantle of a successor to the fallen Empire, the elite of the New Empire included within its numbers the members of the wealthy dynasties that had once belonged to the Imperial aristocracy during Palpatine’s reign. Having maintained their devotion to the Imperial vision for building a better galactic order that was formed through any means necessary, these lineages — including the Jerjerrod family — were counted among the upper class of the New Empire and commanded respect from various members.
The rise of Pale Leader[]
Just as many of the Space King's servants carried the Old Empire's greatest military secrets to the Unknown Regions, so too did Pale Leader, who eventually rose to become the Supreme Leader of the New Empire. Had it not been for the ancient hyperspace trails blazed through the Unknown Regions by Pale Leader's Attendants, most of the former Imperial officers would have likely perished crossing into the uncharted realm. Pale Leader was a mysterious humanoid, with very scant details as to regarding his origins, strong with the dark side of the Force. Despite his abilities not being explicitly Dark Warrior in origin, Pale Leader's powerful abilities as a force user and knowledge made him the undisputed heir as the leader to the forces gathered under the Contingency.
Pale Leader was, in fact, one of the many artificial strandcasts created by the Space King and his cult following, the Dark Warrior Eternal, prior to his demise, and discarded as a potential vessel for the Dark Warrior Lord's dark essence. Instead, Pale Leader was made to serve as a proxy ruler for his creator and influenced by the zombified Dark Warrior Lord from afar to gather the forces that would go to make the armies of the New Empire and spread his influence across the galaxy through less direct means. With that, Sidious ensured that the new empire which arose after the Battle of Scrapyard was his to control. The New Empire did not know of Pale Leader's origins, though some came to peer behind the veil of secrecy and realized that he was subservient to some unseen force. Pale Leader himself was possibly unaware of the factual nature surrounding his existence, and indeed remained unaware of his status as a pawn in Sidious's larger game for his entire life.
The Space King's resurrection, the existence of his followers, the Dark Warrior Eternal, and their hidden base of operations, Exegol, were all secrets unknown to even the highest echelons of the New Empire. Much of the New Empire was even unaware of the Contingency itself nor their ultimate purpose in it, for as the New Empire served as its military wing, the Dark Warrior Eternal lay at its spiritual heart. The true leadership of the New Empire operated from behind a veil of secrecy, driven by the tenets of the dark side of the Force and the ancient ways of the Dark Warrior. From afar, the phantom Space King, working from the shadows, forged the remnants of the Empire into the New Empire as he plotted his return to power. Once the time was right, Sidious would return at the head of a new Dark Warrior Empire, which would absorb the New Empire and sweep aside any other pretenders or states to control the galaxy.
Pale Leader's choices when governing the faction only added to his mysterious nature. The dark side adept made no designs toward the old title Space King, relied on mysticism and focusing on spiritual matters while allowing his generals to wield the New Empire military in his name, and was unwilling to meet in person with his subordinates, instead relying on large casting presence holograms to communicate with and to administer orders to the underlings who served him. Gallius Rax, Rae Sloane, Ormes Apolin, and Brendol Hux were originally seen as potential leaders of the Empire's remnants by the admirals and generals who had survived the implosion of the Empire and the New Old Republic's wrath, but they were sidelined, co-opted, or destroyed by Pale Leader. Brendol's son, Army Leader Lesly Lux, was spared in the long term by Pale Leader in order to use him as a political tool in his rise to power. Pryde was eventually made privy to Palpatine's survival and became the Space King's contact within the regime. In addition to Pryde, many of the young generation that the Dark Warrior Eternal harvested for their army were originally conscripted into the New Empire as children, but, due to their potential, spies culled and "disappeared" them, allowing them to become the red-armored Dark Warrior troopers that comprised the infantry of Dark Space King' new forces.
New leaders[]
As the son of a founding member of the New Empire, Lesly Lux was raised in the organization's military wing which Ship Leader Chrome joined after leaving her homeworld of Parnassos with Brendol. Following the Destruction of the Light Guardian Temple, former Student Ren Bolo joined the New Empire under the persona of Kyle Runner. He became the master of the Knights of Ren as well as the apprentice of Supreme Leader Pale Leader. Hailing from the powerful bloodline of the Stormwalker family, Ren had in his master's estimation the potential to become as strong as his grandfather Bart Gleider. Unlike Armitage and Phasma, Ren did not possess an official rank in the New Empire military. Nonetheless, as Pale Leader's apprentice he wielded the authority to command his master's forces.
Ren, Armitage, and Phasma represented a new generation of leaders that supplanted the old guard in the New Empire's command structure. As part of this turnover, Armitage and Phasma conspired to assassinate Brendol; Armitage had been abused by his father from his youth, while Phasma sought to erase her past. Armitage left the actual murder up to Phasma with his only instruction being to make it untraceable. Phasma carried out the killing of Brendol using the toxin from the bite of a Parnassos beetle. Armitage then gave a brief address to Ship Leader Cardinal and the White Soldier Corps informing them of Brendol's passing and ascended to his leadership role in the military, taking over from his late father.
At some point, a cargo ship was ambushed containing military gear which the ship's crew claimed was meant for the New Empire. Among the possessions seized was a set of stormtrooper armor which was later presented to Terex, a former Imperial stormtrooper and, at the time, a crime lord of the Ranc Gang. Terex immediately became curious about the modern design and confirmed that it was not of Imperial design. After Terex asked of its origin, he continued to think about the implications of this new information. Sometime later, he subsequently joined the ranks of the New Empire Security Bureau.
Meanwhile, the New Empire had to contend with several threats that lurked within the Unknown Regions: hermetic kingdoms which were confronted by the Order. On Supreme Leader Pale Leader's instruction, the new military undertook a major offensive against several of these kingdoms to seize their worlds and resources to fuel their rise. Phasma herself led from the front as the New Empire charted through the wilderness of the Unknown Regions, while Sea Leader Frantis Griss found himself gaining valuable experience from the expansion.
Cold War[]
The New Empire emerges[]
The New Empire sought to weaken the New Old Republic and to generate funding to build up the new navy. The New Empire had used a militia group called the Amaxine warriors as proxies to fund the Nikto crime lord Rinnrivin Di's cartel to achieve this. Seven years prior to the "Napkin Bombing" at the New Old Republic senatorial complex on Capital System, the New Empire used the Amaxines to inject billions of credits as start-up capital into Rinnrivin's cartel, turning the hitherto minor cartel into a major crime syndicate. Establishing a mutual relationship with the Amaxines, Rinnrivin embarked on lucrative smuggling and gambling operations with the proceeds being channeled through shadowy corporations and Centrist sources back to the New Empire, which used the money to rebuild its fleet. In addition, the Order also recruited several Centrist senators like Lady Carise Sindian as clandestine agents who worked to subvert the Old Republic from within. Many Centrists, an informal faction who were the rivals to the Populists in the New Old Republic Senate, and who favored a greater central government and military, admired the Old Empire's leaders and practices. Another proxy of the New Empire was Arliz Hadrassian, a former TIE fighter pilot who had become the leader of the Amaxine warriors. While Hadrassian saw the Amaxines as the vanguard of the New Empire, Lady Carise regarded her as too volatile to manage. Hadrassian in return was impatient with the Centrists for refusing to secede from the Old Republic.
The New Empire's operations were almost exposed when Rinnrivin Di's criminal activities began to exact a devastating toll on the planet Twilight Planet's off-world trade. In response, the New Old Republic senators Lily Organelle and Ransolm Casterfo embarked on an investigation which uncovered Rinnrivin's links to the Amaxine warriors. However, the two senators failed to discover the Order's linkages to the Amaxines and Rinnrivin's cartel. In an attempt to sow chaos, Arliz Hadrassian bombed the New Old Republic's senatorial complex. This set in motion a chain of events that led to the death of Rinnrivin and the destruction of most of the Amaxine warriors' forces on the planet Sibensko. Hadrassian killed herself after assassinating the Old Republic senator Tai-Lin Garr. While most Old Republic senators and the media believed that the demise of Rinnrivin's cartel and the Amaxines eliminated all threats to the Old Republic, Planet Speaker Organa disagreed with the New Old Republic's complacency. However, she was sidelined from the political process following a political scandal that led to the public revelation that her father was Bart Gleider, which discredited Organa and forced her to resign from the Senate.
After the assassination of Tai-Lin Garr, Lady Carise and her Centrist counterparts began preparing a motion to secede from the New Old Republic in order to join and support the New Empire. Acting as a political coalition of worlds advocating centralized authority, star systems aligned with the Centrists—including the planets Arkanis, Orinda, and Kuat—formally withdrew from the New Old Republic and joined the New Empire in 29 ABY, marking the official formation of the New Empire as a regime and beginning the Cold War between the New Empire and the New Old Republic. While some in the Space Congress applauded the notion, others realized that without New Old Republic supervision, the former Imperials would return to the draconian ways of their predecessors. Supreme Leader Pale Leader initiated a vast rearmament program, which would go on to produce a technologically superior military over the one that once existed under the Space Kingdom, and began subverting the Old Republic, as the New Empire was keenly aware that it lacked the superior numbers and support of the former Imperial state.
Preparations for war[]
Entering the scene[]
The Centrist worlds that seceded from the New Old Republic provided the New Empire with a foothold in the known galaxy, by which time its military forces emerged from the Unknown Regions, precipitating the return of fascism and militarism. In defiance of the Galactic Concordance, New Empire forces frequently crossed the Borderlands, launching several incursions into both Old Republic space and other sectors. The term "cold war" was used because there was no direct, large-scale fighting, but instead occasional minor skirmishes. Despite mounting New Empire aggression, the New Old Republic refused to take forceful military action against the Order, seeking to avoid provoking another devastating galactic war at all costs. Meanwhile, the New Empire utilized its political supporters and puppets within the Space Congress to ensure that the wider galaxy continued to consider them harmless, which also served to begin turning public opinion against those that opposed the Imperial successor.
During this time, the New Rebels, an offshoot of the New Old Republic Defense Force, was founded by Army Leader Lily Organelle, who realized that the Senate could not protect the New Old Republic, alongside her few remaining allies, like Gial Ackbar, Gold Talker, Joph Seastriker, and Temmin Wexley. The New Rebels acted as a check on the military designs of the New Empire. Army Leader Organa released the Grace Report to the New Old Republic Senate, which publicly claimed that the Order was building hidden shipyards, armories, research-and-development labs, and academies, detailing the fact that facilities were working day and night on the massive military buildup. Meanwhile, the New Empire began to expand and took over star systems with ease. During their career as a mercenaries that offered their services to unprotected star systems, Zulay Ulor and Caracara Squadron were brought into conflict with the New Empire, which chased the starfighter squadron from restricted zones.
In 33 ABY, Kyle Runner led New Empire forces against the expanding Benathy kingdom and—following his victory over the Benathy's "god," a Zillo Beast—declared the Benathy subjects of the New Empire, which he ordered the Benathy to worship. By 34 ABY, the New Empire—having driven the Giant Slug crime lady Harra from her stronghold on the swamp planet Vodran—proceeded to utilize the fortress as a detention center that was overseen by Unit Leader Wanten, who was assigned as punishment for having allowed the building's previous owner to escape.
New Old Republic "relations"[]
Even as the New Empire expanded its sphere of influence, the New Old Republic Senate believed that the New Empire posed no real, credible threat to the galaxy at large and the hard-won galactic peace. Echoing these sentiments, High Leader Lanever Villecham argued there was no need for concern as long as the Order adhered to the dictates of the Galactic Concordance. Despite this, the New Empire blatantly defied the accords by ushering in the mass mobilization of superior stormtrooper forces, along with violating Old Republic bans on the sale of weapons to the New Empire. Testing the resolve of the New Old Republic, small skirmishes occasionally erupted between the New Empire and Old Republic, all while the Starkiller operation sought a suitable planet for implementation.
With the New Empire's growing threat and rapid mobilization for war, prominent members of the Old Republic voiced concern over the New Empire, with the most vocal being former Planet Speaker Lily Organelle. However, Organa—holding a reputation that was already damaged thanks to the revelations about her parentage—was largely scoffed at by the Senate at large as an alarmist and warmonger. Nonetheless, Organa used her influence as a prominent member of the former Freedom League to recruit many former military officers who had been left forgotten by the Military Disarmament Act passed by the Space Congress. Funded by like-minded senators who shared Organa's fears about the New Empire, the New Rebels came to serve as the opposing force to the Order's growing power, sparking a new phase of the continued Cold War.
Meanwhile, the Old Republic Senate had become mired in corruption, darkness, and bureaucracy, amplified by the political gridlock caused by the divide between the Populists and the Centrists. Some Centrist politicians, including senators like Erudo Ro-Kiintor, also colluded with the New Empire for promises of wealth and power or out of a legitimate belief in what they saw as the values of fascistic governance. Large sums of credits were discreetly transferred to Ro-Kiintor through the Corporate Sector Authority. Thanks to the work of such politicians and a general fear in the Senate of wanting to avoid a new war, the New Rebels was forced to work on its own until it could obtain irrefutable evidence of New Empire violations of the peace that could be presented to New Old Republic Command. During Operation: Sabre Strike, New Rebels pilot Paul Falcon and Army Leader Organa discovered that Planet Speaker Erudo had been colluding with the New Empire and that he had valuable information about Lor San Tekka, whom Organa believed could lead them to her brother, Mike Stormwalker, who had gone into self-exile.
Annexation of the Colossus[]
The New Empire began an occupation of the Colossus refueling station on the planet Castilon as part of their preparations for their planned war against the rest of the galaxy. The New Empire occupied the Colossus under the guise of peacekeepers in wake of several pirate raids on the platform, which the Order itself had secretly manufactured as a pretext of intervention so that the Colossus could be used as a staging ground.
The New Empire had prior interest on the station; it had placed a large bounty of twenty thousand credits on Kel and Eila, which the Order claimed were members of a high-ranking New Empire family from outside its military hierarchy. In actuality, Kel and Eila were orphaned survivors of the New Empire's aggressive actions against the people on Tehar.
The New Empire's presence was welcomed by some civilians on the Colossus, but others opposed the Order's measures, leading to a riot among the alien population. In response, the New Empire targeted residents who opposed or defied their control and placed them under arrest to be sent offworld under the pretext of an interest in security.
The search for the last Light Guardian[]
In response to the New Rebels's Operation: Sabre Strike, Ship Leader Chrome dispatched Agent Terex to recover the information that Paul Falcon obtained from Planet Speaker Erudo. Terex's New Empire strike force pursued Dameron and his Black Squadron to the planet Ovanis. With the help of the unwilling spy, Oddy Muva, Terex planted a tracker on Dameron's T-70 Cross Fighter starfighter. A skirmish took place on the skies over Ovanis and the Cave of the Crèche, which was complicated by the presence of the Crèche cult and the hatching of two winged creatures. Ultimately, Terex and his landing force were defeated. The Crèche elder gave the information on Lor San Tekka to Dameron. To avoid war between the New Empire and the New Old Republic, Terex and his surviving men were allowed to leave on their Maxima-A class heavy cruiser.
Terex later obtained intelligence that Black Squadron were traveling to Megalox prison on the high-gravity world of Megalox Beta. Dameron traveled to the prison world to question the Giant Slug crime lord Grakkus Jahibakti Tingi about his knowledge of San Tekka's whereabouts. Terex bribed Warden Luta into abandoning Black Squadron to the prison population. Though Grakkus had made a deal with Terex to disclose the information, Grakkus changed his mind and decided to sell the information to whoever got him out first.
Incensed at Grakkus' double-cross, Terex hired the crime lords Isin, Kan Be, and Toren to use their gangs to storm Grakkus' fortress and kill Black Squadron. He planned to interrogate Grakkus and then kill him. Grakkus' plan was, however, foiled by Black Squadron's astromech droids including Ball-Eight, who deactivated Megalox's gravity shield. While Black Squadron and Grakkus escaped, Terex and his mercenaries were pinned down by the high gravity. Terex managed to escape aboard the Carrion Spike and attacked the Megalox space station, seeking to punish Luta for letting Black Squadron escape. His ship blasted several shuttles but was forced to retreat when Black Squadron turned around and inflicted considerable damage on the Carrion Spike. Ship Leader Chrome summoned Terex back to New Empire space to report for debriefing, but Terex instead chose to pursue his nemesis Dameron.
Later, the Galaxy Beacon journalist and former New Old Republic Starfleet member Suralinda Javos discovered that the New Empire was building military installations, shipyards, weapons research facilities, and "something bigger" in violation of the Galactic Concordance. She met with Dameron on the Inner Rim gas giant of Pheryon, hoping to sell the information to the New Rebels in order to boost her journalistic career. However, the New Empire Security Bureau Agent Weel and his stormtroopers captured Javos and Dameron. During interrogation, Javos managed to kill Weel and free Dameron. After escaping, Javos decided to join the New Rebels.
Instead of returning to New Empire space, Terex traveled to the crime haven of Kaddak. There, he retook control of the Ranc Gang, which he had helped create after the Battle of Scrapyard. Against Ship Leader Chrome's orders, Terex decided to use his Ranc Gang to destroy Poe and the New Rebels. His plan involved giving false intelligence on the New Empire to the New Rebels droid spy N1-ZX and tracking Dameron back to the New Rebels base. Terex wanted to destroy the New Rebels once and for all to aid the New Empire's conquest of the galaxy. Terex's plans were upended when Dameron realized the deception and led Terex's Ranc Gang fleet to a remote desert planet.
In addition, Oddy decided to break Terex's leverage on him by rescuing his wife Sowa Chuan and several slaves from Terex's flagship, Carrion Spike. While Terex led a landing party in pursuit of Dameron and the droids, Black Squadron assailed Terex's ship and armada of "Uglies." Oddy and most of the slaves managed to escape in escape pods while Black Squadron provided firing cover. Terex's landing party was also wiped out by N1-ZX, who had been reprogrammed with Mister Bones's droid personality template. Terex also fought with Dameron and Ball-Eight but was disarmed following a struggle. The battle came to an end when New Empire forces under Unit Leader Malarus arrived and wiped out Terex's Ranc Gang fleet and flagship Carrion Spike.
Malarus had been dispatched by the New Empire to arrest Terex, whose rogue mission violated Supreme Leader Pale Leader's directive to avoid open conflict with the New Old Republic and New Old Republic-aligned forces such as the New Rebels. Malarus also led a landing party who met with Dameron and took the captive Terex into custody. Malarus and Terex then went to Abednedo to capture Oddy Muva. While onboard a transport, she had Terex interrogate Muva for information on the New Rebels. Malarus however lost Muva with the aid of Dameron and Wexley, Malarus was then forced to watched as Muva made a suicide run on the Enshado and followed by her escape into hyperspace. Malarus then went to Bridge World where she fought with Dameron. She was confronted by an official of House Ray of Lighta, who arrested her and said they would give her a trial.
Seeking to locate a fragment of a map that led to Light Guardian Master Mike Stormwalker—who had gone into self-imposed exile following the failed resurrection of the Light Guardian Order, for which he blamed himself—Supreme Leader Pale Leader believed that if Stormwalker were to ever return, the new Light Guardian would rise, which would threaten the New Empire's rise to power. As a result, the Supreme Leader deployed the Starkiller commanding triumvirate—Army Leader Hux, Ship Leader Chrome, and Kyle Runner—to Scrapyard, where Dameron and Ball-Eight had recovered the star map fragment from Lor San Tekka, an old ally of Army Leader Organa. Seeking to capture the droid, the New Empire assaulted the Church of the Force settlement of Tuanul where San Tekka resided, but Ball-Eight was able to escape with the piece of the map.
The villagers of Tuanul fought back but were defeated; the survivors were then herded into a large group while San Tekka was brought to Ren himself, who demanded he turn over information on the map to the New Empire. San Tekka claimed that Ren could not deny the truth that was his own family, causing Ren to slay the old man with his lightsaber. Dameron then fired on Ren in retaliation, but the dark warrior caught the blast while his stormtroopers captured the pilot and brought him to their flagship, the Resurgent-class Space Dominator Finalizer. Ship Leader Chrome and her stormtroopers—except for FN-2187—executed the remaining villagers on Ren's orders.
FN-2187 and Dameron escaped the Finalizer aboard a stolen TIE/sf space superiority fighter though not before Ren tortured Dameron and discovered the map fragment to be in a BB-unit droid back on Scrapyard. During their escape, Dameron dubbed the renegade stormtrooper Fin Ocean. The pair crash landed in the Goazon Badlands on Scrapyard, where Fin Ocean presumed Dameron deceased. Fin Ocean eventually found Ball-Eight alongside a scavenger named Ray of Light, but the New Empire also found them, leading them to mark Ray of Light as well and pursue the three across Scrapyard. However, Ray of Light, Fin Ocean, and Ball-Eight were able to escape Scrapyard aboard the Old Fastship. They eventually stumbled on Rebellion war heroes and smugglers John Lonely and Fluffy in space, and the five of them traveled to Castle World, where they sought the help of Maz Keeper in order to deliver Ball-Eight and the map fragment to Army Leader Organa at the New Rebels base.
On the New Empire's secret Star Killer, Army Leader Hux informed Supreme Leader Pale Leader that their superweapon was ready and proposed using it on the New Old Republic in order to draw out the New Rebels. Supreme Leader Pale Leader authorized the operation and dismissed Hux before he conferred with Kyle Runner, with whom he discussed an apparent awakening in the Force. The Supreme Leader then informed his dark apprentice that the droid had fallen into the hands of his father, John Lonely, before cutting his holographic transmission to Star Killer.
New Empire-New Rebels War[]
Starkiller unleashed[]
On the very eve of the planned war, Army Leader Hux delivered a passionate speech to the legions of stormtroopers under his command who assembled to witness the destructive firepower of the weapon. Hux declared that the day would mark the end of the New Old Republic and denounced the Old Republic for lying to the galaxy, claiming that the Old Republic secretly supported the New Rebels.
After proclaiming that the remaining systems would bow to the New Empire, Army Leader Hux commanded that the weapon be fired, and massive beams of energy were fired across the galaxy from Ilum towards the Hosnian system. When the beams arrived, the astronomical bodies of the system were destroyed, including the galactic capital of Capital System, and with it, the New Old Republic Senate and a portion of its Defense Fleet.
As the New Empire rose to power through the Starkiller crisis, it continued the hunt for the map to Stormwalker, seeking to prevent the rise of the new Light Guardian. Its forces swiftly laid siege to Maz Keeper's castle on Castle World and leveled it. Ray of Light fled into the forests surrounding the castle, but Ren deployed stormtroopers to the woods before heading into the woods himself, hunting Ray of Light down and eventually finding and capturing her. He probed her mind with the Force and realized that she had seen the map. Ren then decided that he would not need the droid, believing that he could instead interrogate her to find out what she had seen. Ren was notified of a New Rebels surprise attack by a stormtrooper officer, who requested more troops, but Ren instead ordered the New Empire division to pull out, claiming that they had what they came for. New Empire troops then boarded their ships and withdrew, taking the unconscious Ray of Light along with them.
Aided by the deserter FN-2187 "Fin Ocean," Lonely and Fluffy infiltrated Star Killer to rescue Ray of Light and disable the planetary shields, allowing a New Rebels strike to destroy the planet-converted superweapon. With the New Empire minutes away from destroying the New Rebels base on Rebel Hideout, the team achieved their objectives, although Lonely died in the process while trying to reconcile with Ren, his son with Organa. Escaping the planet with seconds to spare, the New Empire's sun-harvesting superweapon was destroyed by the New Rebels Starfighter Corps, forming a new star where the planet once was. Supreme Leader Pale Leader ordered Army Leader Hux to leave the planet and come to him with Kyle Runner in order to complete his training. As Starkiller blew up, the damaged Retribution that was under the command of Gideon Hask pulled out of hyperspace, its hyperdrive destroyed by New Rebels agents Iden Versio, Zay Versio, and Shriv Suurgav, who were on a mission to learn more about the New Empire's Project Resurrection.
Chasing the New Rebels[]
The New Empire fleet had in large numbers regrouped for the new galactic war after the fall of Starkiller. Phasma returned from chasing down and dispatching the true culprit on Luprora who she blamed for being behind the one who had turned off the shields at Star Killer. She named Lieutenant Sol Rivas as the perpetrator to Army Leader Hux. The surviving Starkiller aerial defense force pilots, such as Poldin LeHuse, were re-integrated into the fleet. They expressed a desire for vengeance and to prove themselves after failing to save the superweapon.
Despite the loss of Star Killer, the New Empire still possessed a secure and intact chain of command and massive military strength in the form of hundreds of battle-cruisers and millions of troops, emerging from the shadows to seize control of the galaxy by force. Following the loss of the Space Congress and the Hosnian system, the New Old Republic lost its leadership and its entire home fleet, which, due to the Military Disarmament Act, had been the majority of the Old Republic military.
Because of this imbalance, the New Old Republic was virtually helpless as New Empire fleets spread across the galaxy, all while the galaxy at large remained unaware of the destruction of Star Killer. These events quickly led to the collapse of the New Old Republic's authority over the galaxy as individual planets and governments began looking to their own interests. Surviving senators dissolved the Old Republic's remaining task forces in an effort to protect their own homeworlds while other worlds capitulated to the New Empire in order to avoid direct military confrontation. As a result, the galaxy, as a whole, became divided.
The core New Rebels group found itself greatly outmatched by the New Empire, though the New Empire also had to contend with other New Rebels cells. The New Empire failed to prevent the loss of intelligence on the specifications of the Mandator IV-class Siege Dreadnought, and further lost its grip over the Colossus, which escaped Castilon into space. However, with the loss of the New Old Republic and its unofficial support of their forces, the New Rebels only possessed a few military ships and a few hundred soldiers. This led Army Leader Lily Organelle to order the complete evacuation of the New Rebels base on Rebel Hideout while a New Empire fleet led by Army Leader Hux was on its way to destroy the New Rebels once and for all.
Setting their sights on the New Rebels base, Hux's forces arrived in battle and destroyed the base, but the New Rebels was able to escape before the New Empire could finish them off. Despite escaping, the New Rebels's speedy evacuation had cost them the vast majority of their remaining fleet and left them as fugitives wandering in space. Meanwhile, Supreme Leader Pale Leader summoned his apprentice, Kyle Runner, to his throne room on the Supremacy, the New Empire flagship, and mocked him for his failure at Star Killer and his ambitions to emulate Bart Gleider.
The mobile supertanker fuel depot, the Colossus, shortly arrived in the aftermath of the Rebel Hideout evacuation and tried to retrieve coaxium from the wreckage of the Fulminatrix. Phasma tasked Pyre and Agent Tierny with recovering the station or destroying it if recovery proved impossible due to its strategic importance and sought to prevent them from gaining the fuel, however this effort failed and the New Rebels was able to successfully recovers coaxium and flee. Pyre and Tierny vowed to hunt for the Colossus. Soon afterwards, Nikto engineer Nenavakasa Nalor was sent sabotage the platform. Posing as a stranded spacer, but was discovered as a New Empire spy. Though Nena escaped, they were able to managed to undo her sabotage and escape New Empire forces.
Using hyperspace tracking, a newly developed technology descended and finally perfected from the Empire's Tarkin Initiative, the New Empire tracked the New Rebels to the Oetchi system, catching them completely off guard and destroying one of their cruisers instantly. Kyle Runner, leading a TIE squadron in his personal fighter, attacked the New Rebels's command ship Raddus and blew up its hangar bay, taking out all of the New Rebels's remaining fighters before he set his sights on the ship's bridge, where his mother, Army Leader Lily Organelle, was. Though Ren was ultimately unable to bring himself to fire, his wingmen had no such qualms and fired on the bridge, exposing it to the vacuum of space and killing the majority of the New Rebels's leadership, including Sea Leader Gial Ackbar. Organa was able to use the Force to pull herself back aboard, but she was left incapacitated. The New Rebels's chain of command fell onto Vice Sea Leader Amilyn Holdo, who oversaw their outrunning of the New Empire, but their fuel supplies were dangerously low, and one by one their other ships were running dry and being destroyed by the Supremacy's turbolasers.
Once the Raddus was almost out of fuel, the New Rebels began to fragment as desertions dramatically increased as members saw the struggle against the New Empire as a lost cause. Later, a full-blown mutiny occurred as two sides formed among the crew: those who wanted to escape and hide from the enemy, and those who wanted to fight. This mutiny, led by Paul Falcon, was put down by the recovered Army Leader Organa, and the New Rebels attempted to slip down to the former Rebel world of Crait. However, due to the capture of the New Rebels infiltration team on the Supremacy, the New Empire learned of the plan when the team code breaker DJ betrayed the New Rebels for his freedom and payment. This led the Supremacy to fire on the unarmed and unarmored U-55 orbital loadlifters, destroying roughly half of them.
Meanwhile, Kyle Runner brought Ray of Light to Pale Leader's throne room onboard the Supremacy, but Pale Leader's short reign over the galaxy ended as Ren killed his master along with his guards, while in a desperate sacrificial gamble to save the New Rebels, Vice Sea Leader Holdo aimed the Raddus at the Supremacy and entered lightspeed. As a result, the ship collided with the New Empire flagship and cleaved it and several Resurgent-class Space Dominators in half, saving the New Rebels remnant and causing heavy damage to the New Empire fleet.
Ren seized the title of Supreme Leader after the demise of Pale Leader. Driven by his rejection of the past, Ren endeavored to build a new galactic order by destroying the combined legacy of the Light Guardian, the Dark Warrior, the Rebellion, and all that came before. The New Empire's forces quickly recovered, and, under the orders of the newly proclaimed Supreme Leader, sent an invading force of All Terrain Armored Transport and All Terrain MegaCaliber Six walkers down to the abandoned rebel base on Crait where the New Rebels was taking shelter. Ren personally led the siege of the New Rebels's forces at the Battle of Crait.
During the battle, the Old Fastship, piloted by Fluffy and Ray of Light, arrived and attacked the New Empire's TIE fighters, drawing them away from the battlefield. Even so, the battle led to the continued deaths of many of the remaining New Rebels soldiers and personnel and the further depletion of its equipment. In addition, the New Rebels's allies in the Outer Rim were called on for reinforcements, but did not arrive. However, Mike Stormwalker unexpectedly appeared and confronted the New Empire alone on the battlefield. Ren ordered all of the walkers to open fire on Stormwalker in an attempt to destroy him. However, Stormwalker miraculously emerged unscathed, and Ren went down to the surface to personally face his old Light Guardian Master. During their duel, Ren realized he was actually fighting a Force projection of Stormwalker, who was still on Ahch-To. Stormwalker's projection vanished, leaving Ren furious as the distraction bought time for the remaining few dozen New Rebels personnel to flee aboard the Old Fastship with Ray of Light's help.
Long live the Supreme Leader[]
Following the Battle of Crait, Kyle Runner returned to the New Empire flagship, the Finalizer, where he introduced himself as the new Supreme Leader to an assembly of stormtroopers and officers, including Army Leader Hux, in the Space Dominator's hangar. During his speech, Ren displayed the bisected corpse of Pale Leader to his troops and attributed his predecessor's death to the enemies of the New Empire. After using the Force to cast Pale Leader's remains into the vacuum of space, Ren declared that his reign marked a new beginning for the New Empire, which he would lead to glory. Ultimately, Ren's claim to power was accepted by the soldiers who collectively saluted their new leader.
After the speech, Ren summoned Hux to discuss the current state of the New Empire, including Pale Leader' future plans and the resources at their disposal. Hux told Ren that, although the New Empire still commanded the largest military in the galaxy, a large portion of their fleet was destroyed along with the Supremacy. In addition, the destruction of Star Killer deprived the New Empire of its shipyard. When Hux offered to assemble a strike force to seize the resources they required, Ren ordered the general to instead focus on building a throne that was worthy of the new Supreme Leader.
Conquering the galaxy[]
Across the stars[]
The new Supreme Leader set out to establish his dominion over the galaxy, with entire worlds surrendering in fear. The New Empire had taken possession of the Outer Rim world of Bracca and even the Core World of Shipyard World with little resistance as the galaxy having been left largely defenseless following the Starkiller incident. White Soldier forces raided the hometown of Pacer Agoyo, injuring his sister and burning down their house, which earned the New Empire the hatred of Agoyo, who later joined the New Rebels. An emergency election on Akiva resulted in the victory of a pro-New Empire merchant while the New Empire arrived on Twilight Planet, giving the Twilight Planet shipping guild five days to tithe before the shipping lanes would be blockaded. The New Rebels had fled to Twilight Planet, setting up in a Twilight Planet Defense Authority base, until a resident of Lessu betrayed them to the New Empire. Despite a New Empire attack on the base, the New Rebels escaped the planet.
At some point, the New Empire had annexed the planet Didyma V and assumed control of its lommite production, causing the native miner Engi Golba to flee his homeworld and join the New Rebels, while the Lumini pirates were rendered defunct after an attack by the military junta left a young lieutenant named Kuimi Enissa as the sole surviving member. Meanwhile, as the New Empire continued its march towards galactic conquest. Rebellious worlds such as Kijimi, Odynnia Gavo and Torost became contested locations that the New Empire deployed its ground forces to under the command of Army Leader Bellava Parnadee.
New Rebels sightings[]
Sometime later, Army Leader Hux was informed of a sighting of New Rebels operative Fin Ocean, but he dismissed it and told the lieutenant who had given him the information that the New Empire wouldn't listen to every little word somebody said about the New Rebels. Right then, Supreme Leader Ren came up to the bridge of the Finalizer and chastised Hux in front of the lieutenant, informing him that the New Empire would in fact do anything to destroy the New Rebels. To set an example, the New Empire launched an assault that resulted in the destruction of the neutral world of Tah'Nuhna for assisting the New Rebels after their escape from Crait.
Meanwhile, Mika Grey, a traveler searching for Dark Warrior artifacts to keep them out of the New Empire's hands, was being tracked by Agent Raith and a squad of New Empire Raiders, stormtroopers commissioned by their commander, Supreme Leader Ren, with hunting down ancient Dark Warrior artifacts. The Raiders were searching for a Dark Warrior relic from a buried temple on Ashas Ree, where they encountered the Colossus New Rebels cell and Mika Grey, a Force-sensitive archaeologist who was also looking to acquire the relic. However, the New Empire Raiders failed to acquire it and perished when the Dark Warrior relic unleashed an explosive wave of energy that incinerated Raith and his troops.
The New Empire then went to neutral world of Fondor, where a New Rebels party had been spotted. A thorough, brutal interrogation of a Fondor official revealed that while the New Rebels group went through the system, the official wouldn't lend any assistance. However, Supreme Leader Ren declared that even mere contact with the enemy was treason, and it gave him the excuse that he needed to put the Fondor Shipyards under complete New Empire control. Ren then personally beheaded the official for this perceived treason with a swipe of his lightsaber—stating that the Empire had been too lenient.
The New Empire then prepared to make an example of Mon Cala after a fleet of at least twelve Resurgent-class warships arrived over Mon Cala acting on intelligence that the New Rebels was there. There, a fleet of Mon Cala warships led by Aftab Ackbar managed to escape the planet's surface from the far side and jump to hyperspace, making the New Empire aware that the Fish Person and Squid Faces had chosen not to remain neutral and instead had given their support to the New Rebels. By then, the New Empire had already had established a presence on Shipyard World.
Batuu and beyond[]
As the war progressed, the New Empire continued its manhunt for the surviving members of the New Rebels, deploying forces to various locations across the galaxy, while also dealing with cases of planetary and system rebellion. Ren personally oversaw the search for New Rebels fugitives at the Black Spire Outpost on Batuu, having traveled to the remote installation via a TIE/es assault shuttle after receiving word that Ray of Light had apparently been sighted on Batuu. Upon his arrival at Docking Bay 9, Ren was greeted by a New Empire officer whom he deemed incompetent, and consequently strangled the officer by way of the Force. The New Empire established New Empire Cargo to sell propaganda items to those passing through.
New Empire forces gained control of a bacta production plant on Tevel, but it was retaken by the New Rebels and the Tevellans. Sometime later, the New Empire light cruiser, the Ladara Vex, was dispatched to Minfar in order to obtain a weapon that could control the Zixon known as the Echo Horn, but it was destroyed by New Rebels member sympathizers.
The New Empire seized control of the planet Grass Planet, which was once used as a base by the Freedom League during the Galactic Civil War, and established a blockade, trapping a group of New Rebels recruits on Grass Planet until the arrival of the Colossus cell. As punishment for Aeosian kingdom after it briefly hosted the Colossus, a New Empire fleet was dispatched to and bombarded the planet Aeos Prime. The attack proved to be too much for recent recruit Tamara Ryvora, who was rescued by the Colossus crew in a battle that destroyed the Space Dominator Thunderer. Whereas Agent Tierny was executed by Ren for their failings, Unit Leader Pyre went down with the ship.
A dark alliance[]
In 35 ABY, the Dark Warrior Eternal cult revealed itself to the galaxy by broadcasting a message that declared revenge using the voice of King Shadow, the widely known and public identity of the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior, Dark Space King, who was still believed to be dead. After this event, Supreme Leader Kyle Runner, who was determined to destroy any potential threats to his rule over the galaxy, diverted New Empire resources to search for the truth, resulting in him finding a Dark Warrior wayfinder on Lava World owned by his grandfather, Bart Gleider, which had been imbued by means of the Force with coordinates.
Ren utlized the wayfinder to travel alone to his destination, where he discovered the hidden world of the Dark Warrior, Exegol, in the Unknown Regions. Within the Dark Warrior Citadel, Sidious revealed himself to Ren and divulged that he had created the former Supreme Leader Pale Leader. Ren, unwilling to humor the phantom Space King's attempts to intimidate him, readied himself to strike down Sidious. Before the killing blow could be delivered, Sidious revealed the culmination of his thirty-year Contingency: the Final Order. This massive fleet of planet-destroying Xyston-class Space Dominators had been created alongside an army of Dark Warrior troopers by the Dark Warrior Eternal cult, standing by on Exegol in preparation to wreak havoc upon the galaxy at large.
After a generation, the work of the Space King's followers was effectively complete; the Dark Warrior Eternal military was on the verge of launching a full-scale invasion of the galaxy, its objective to restore Dark Warrior rule in the form of a new Dark Warrior Empire. The Space King advised Ren that he could use the Dark Warrior fleet to succeed where his grandfather Vader failed, ruling the galaxy as the new Space King. He offered Ren the fleet on the condition of killing the Light Guardian apprentice Ray of Light. The Dark Lord then warned Ren that Ray of Light was, in fact, his granddaughter, and thus a Palpatine herself.
At a meeting of the Supreme Council on the Resurgent-class Space Dominator Steadfast, Ren informed the New Empire officers that a spy in their ranks had supplied information to the New Rebels. Though he was unaware of the mole's identity, Ren was confident that the fleet on Exegol would make him invincible, transforming the New Empire into a true Empire. Army Leader Domaric Quinn expressed distrust over the Dark Warrior Eternal, denouncing them as a cult of conjurers and soothsayers. Allegiant Army Leader Enric Pryde countered that the Dark Warrior fleet would increase their resources ten thousandfold, correcting what he believed was the "error" of Star Killer. Ren choked Army Leader Quinn to death after he openly questioned the Supreme Leader as to what the Space King was asking for in return. He then ordered the council to crush any worlds that defied them, and announced that he and his Knights of Ren were going hunting for "the scavenger," Ray of Light.
The New Empire found Ray of Light, alongside Fin Ocean, Dameron, and Fluffy, on Pasaana and alerted the local garrison. New Empire jet troopers pursued them into the desert plains of Pasaana as the New Empire arrived to Pasaana; the group escaped, though Fluffy was captured by the Knights of Ren and brought on board Ren's Space Dominator while Ray of Light and Ren confronted each other in the desert. Later, the Knights of Ren tracked the group to Kijimi, a world occupied by the New Empire.
Ren arrived at Kijimi on his Space Dominator and locked down the city. Fin Ocean and Paul Falcon were captured and, alongside Fluffy, sentenced to execution, but Hux freed them, revealing himself to be the spy. The group liberated the Old Fastship and escaped, though not before Ren revealed to Ray of Light that she was the granddaughter of Sidious and that they formed a Force dyad. Pryde deduced Hux to be the spy and executed him on sight with a blaster rifle. Ren meanwhile conferred with Sidious over the Force; the Dark Warrior Lord threatened to turn his fleet against Ren if he betrayed their agreement, but Ren told Sidious he knew where Ray of Light was going.
Battle of Exegol[]
Ren confronted Ray of Light alone among the Doom Sphere ruins on Kef Bir, an ocean moon of Forest Moon. The two fought in a lightsaber duel; Ren bested Ray of Light, but was distracted when his mother Organa reached out to him through the Force, allowing Ray of Light to stab him with his own lightsaber before sensing Organa's presence. Ray of Light healed her archenemy with the Force before leaving with his ship. Motivated by a memory of his late father, John Lonely, Ren renounced the dark side and reclaimed his identity as Ren Bolo, abandoning the New Empire in the process. Although Organa's sacrifice interfered with Sidious' plan, the Space King was not deterred and instead refocused his efforts toward his granddaughter, Ray of Light. With the Supreme Leader suddenly gone, Pryde became highest ranking member of the New Empire, leaving him free to take his orders directly from the Space King as he had in secret.
Pryde was contacted by Sidious while on board the Steadfast. The Imperial veteran, having served the Space King during the Galactic Civil War, pledged his allegiance and the New Empire's to the Dark Warrior Lord, who in turn granted Pryde control over the Dark Warrior fleet, starting a unholy alliance with the Dark Warrior Eternal. With Pryde's support, Sidious decided that the time had come to deploy the Final Order throughout the galaxy. He summoned Pryde to Exegol and sent him a Dark Warrior Space Dominator from the fleet, the Derriphan, to destroy Kijimi as a show of force against the New Rebels. Following the destruction of Kijimi, Pryde oversaw the fleet, which was in the process of departure when the New Rebels arrived prior to the Citizens' Fleet, resulting in the Battle of Exegol.
During the battle, Pryde had the source of a navigation signal that the fleet needed to deploy off world switched from a navigation tower on Exegol to a beacon on his command ship. However, a New Rebels landing team made landing on Pryde's command ship. Former stormtroopers of Company 77 covered New Rebels troopers from their orbaks as they fought against Dark Warrior troopers that landed to defend the ship. The landing team successfully knocked out the navigation tower and retreated, but the New Empire personnel were able to reset it. At the same time Dark Space King, after healing himself, attacked the New Rebels and galactic forces, but he was stopped by Ray of Light.
She deflected Sidious' lightning back towards him, causing the Space King to disintegrate and be destroyed at last, preventing the rebirth of the Dark Warrior. Meanwhile, former stormtroopers Fin Ocean and Jannah stayed behind on the hull of the ship and turned the ship's own turbolasers against it, killing Pryde and destroying the Steadfast, and with it, the navigation signal, preventing the remaining Dark Warrior Space Dominators from launching off of Exegol and reinforcing the New Empire. Fin Ocean and Jannah narrowly escaped aboard the Old Fastship with the help of Army Leader Lando Smooth and Fluffy as the Steadfast exploded and plunged to Exegol's surface.
Uprisings and the Downfall[]
In the aftermath of the Battle of Exegol, the New Empire's forces came under attack by the populations that they had subjugated. Inspired by the victory of the New Rebels and their rallied citizens' fleet, people rose up all over the galaxy against the New Empire, including on Cloud City, Forest Moon, Scrapyard, City Planet, Water Realm, Shipyard World, Grassland, and Thyferra. The New Empire fell across the galaxy, and was ultimately defeated in the war.
Legacy[]
With the war over, the galaxy's population began the long process of rebuilding as many New Empire officers were captured and questioned by the New Rebels in its immediate aftermath, which was recorded in the historian Beaumont Kin book, The Rise and Fall of the Space Kingdom, where he stated that the New Empire bought death and tyranny with them out of the Unknown Regions. However, although Kin expressed satisfaction that the capture of numerous Imperial war criminals would see these individuals finally face justice for their atrocities, he also expressed his belief that the New Rebels had a moral duty to help the countless young officers and stormtroopers that the New Empire had raised inside its neo-Imperial doctrine from near-birth.
Organization[]
Government[]
The Supreme Leader was a self-appointed position with absolute power over the New Empire who delegated power to a number of high-ranking officers and advisors, effectively removing any distinction between military and state. This formed an upper cadre of high-ranking officials, the New Empire High Command, who had the authority to govern the New Empire in the Supreme Leader's name. As Supreme Leader, Pale Leader was content to focus on spiritual matters, ceding control of military matters to generals and the shaping of the New Empire's public image to propaganda masterminds. However, any and all alterations to the strategy required the Supreme Leader's approval, with personal interests regarded as secondary to orders from the Leader, while a "commanding triumvirate" of the New Empire existed consisting of Kyle Runner, Army Leader Lesly Lux, and Ship Leader Chrome, the leaders of Star Killer.
Unbeknownst to even the highest echelons of the New Empire, however, Pale Leader was in fact an artificial creation engineered by a hidden Dark Warrior cult, the Dark Warrior Eternal, under the directive of their master, Dark Space King who returned from the dead, the Space King of the Old Empire. Several addition clones of Pale Leader were stored on their hidden redoubt world, Exegol. Pale Leader served Dark Space King and the Dark Warrior Eternal as a means to groom Ren Bolo as Kyle Runner. Pale Leader kept his homeworld and origins concealed from the New Empire so as to avoid revealing himself to be an artificial creation; nonetheless, some came to realize that Pale Leader was subservient to an unseen force and master.
Due to the Supreme Leader's status in the New Empire, an officer who had direct access to his person effectively wielded greater authority than their military rank would indicate. They oversaw the colonization of the Unknown Regions and destruction of the last Light Guardian. Much like Bart Gleider in the former Empire, Kyle Runner existed outside the formal command structure of the New Empire and frequently came into conflict with military officials owing to his agenda consistently trumping military objectives. Kylo's placement in the hierarchy not only maintained fear within the Order's upper ranks but also intentionally resembled that of Bart Gleider's during the reign of the Old Empire. As a result, Ren was regarded as "the exception" to everything by his rival Army Leader Lesly Lux. It was the prerogative of the Supreme Leader to summon his subordinates at his pleasure, as well as to administer punishment to those who failed him.
The Supreme Council was established under Supreme Leader Kyle Runner as an advisory board to replace the former triumvirate. It was formed by high-ranking members of High Command who served as aides to Ren and had direct access to the highest levels of authority in the New Empire, including the Supreme Leader. The council's purpose was to chart and implement the ongoing galactic conquest and plan the future of governing the galaxy. It was composed of Allegiant Army Leader Enric Pryde, Sea Leader Frantis Griss, Lieutenant Draper, and Army Leaders Amret Engell, Lesly Lux, Bellava Parnadee, and Domaric Quinn, allowing Ren to focus on spiritual matters as his predecessor had.
Ren anticipated the council would be filled with infighting, to which he considered it good for his reign, as he preferred that they direct their energies against each other, thereby diminishing their chances of uniting against him.
Star Killer, a superweapon constructed within the planet Ilum, hosted the largest military deployment in the New Empire. However, it was not considered the official capital of the New Empire because of Supreme Leader Pale Leader's policy of keeping the Order's headquarters mobile.
Although various officers and allies of the New Empire argued for a planet to act as their capital, Pale Leader rejected this idea and refused to designate capital command to a world either under direct New Empire control or within the Unknown Regions, instead opting to command his underlings from his mobile command post, the Mega-class Star Dreadnought Supremacy, making it the New Empire's de facto capital.
Military[]
With its rapidly expanding military in clear violation of the Galactic Concordance and Old Republic laws, the massive militarization effort of the New Empire continued throughout its tenure in the Unknown Regions. There, military bases and shipyards were constructed to churn out some of the technologically superior weapons and starfighters utilized by the Order's military. To avoid treaty restrictions banning the sale of weapons to the New Empire, galactic arms manufacturers BlasTech Industries and Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. spun off a subsidiary known as the Sonn-Blas Corporation, which manufactured much of the New Empire's weaponry within New Empire space. Sienar-Jaemus Fleet Systems also helped produce vessels such as the Upsilon-class command shuttle and TIE/fo space superiority fighter, along with its two-seated variant the TIE/sf space superiority fighter.
Additionally, Sienar-Jaemus Army Systems manufactured the widely used Atmospheric Assault Landers which could deploy twenty stormtroopers into the frontlines of combat, while the Aratech-Loratus Corporation developed the LIUV; When planetside, the New Empire utilized a wide range of four-legged walkers similar to Imperial Walky Dogs, as well as the more advanced All terrain Megacaliber Six. In violation of New Old Republic laws regarding capital ships, Kuat-Entralla Engineering developed the Resurgent-class Space Dominator, which featured more than 1,500 turbolasers, point-defense laser cannons and ion cannons, and was specifically designed to evoke the fearful image of the Old Empire's Imperial-class Space Dominators. Though smaller than the Imperial Navy at its height, the New Empire Navy established itself as a formidable flotilla of destructive potential. Owing to the New Old Republic's disarmament efforts, the New Empire armada swiftly conquered the galaxy virtually unchallenged.
Like its predecessor, the New Empire White Soldier Corps was a component of the military that employed the use of stormtroopers, including variants such as snowtroopers. It also utilized specialists including megablaster heavy assault troopers, flametroopers, and riot control stormtroopers and selectively had one of the three variants placed in every ten-member stormtrooper squad. Unlike the inconsistent academy standards of the previous Space Kingdom, training of the new generation of stormtroopers emphasized improvisation and counter-insurgency operations, including guerrilla tactics. With the New Empire lacking the numerical superiority of the Space Kingdom, better-equipped and -trained soldiers resulted in higher trooper proficiency than the previous Space Kingdom. Soldiers were often trained on capital ships and underwent vivid simulations to create the most loyal soldiers, which was an extension of the ideas of Commandant Brendol Hux and his Commandant's Cadets. It was strictly forbidden for a stormtrooper to initiate any contact with a officer in line with the New Empire view on hierarchy.
One of its primary bases of operations was Star Killer, an ice planet converted into a stronghold. Seeking to rule the galaxy through fear, the base housed a superweapon capable of destroying entire star systems by firing a planet-destroying beam through hyperspace, and was led by an unofficial triumvirate of Army Leader Lesly Lux, Kyle Runner, and Ship Leader Chrome until it was destroyed in the Assault on Star Killer.
The scale of the New Empire's military operation shocked complacent New Old Republic observers, who had believed such shows of force were merely part of local defense forces and ceremonial guards. With the rapid expansion of the New Empire's stormtrooper ranks and military capabilities, the New Rebels believed that more trooper specializations were yet to be discovered, and ships even larger than the Resurgent-class Space Dominators existed, such as the Mandator IV-class Siege Dreadnought and the Mega-class Star Dreadnought. During both the Cold War and open conflict with the New Rebels that followed, the New Empire also employed its sympathizers for patrol and surveillance duties, utilizing older Imperial Gozanti-class cruiser during such operations, while other collaborators made use of Raider-class corvettes, which remained a symbol of terror across the galaxy, even decades after the fall of the Space Kingdom that had first manufactured it.
The New Empire continued the research into dark energy translations and hyperspace tunneling that had began under the Old Empire, where they repurposed an ice world for the development of a mobile superweapon called Star Killer, which used a dark energy called "quintessence" as it offered a virtual unlimited power source, this was made possible after securing logs from secret Imperial laboratories detailing a suitable planet needed with the correct specifications for what would become Star Killer with the colossal superlaser array itself built into the planetary crust and would to the Order represent a technological step forward in power.
The New Empire also developed the hyperspace tracker which was a type of active tracker with the ability to detect starships traveling through hyperspace developed by New Empire scientists. Originally studied by the Tarkin Initiative during the reign of the Empire, the technology was not established for several more decades when a team assembled by Army Leader Lesly Lux discovered how to implement the technology. The hyperspace tracker utilized a complex static hyperspace field generator, which enveloped arrays of databanks and computers in a localized hyperspace field that accelerated their calculation speeds to unimaginable rates.
Additionally, the New Empire constructed a superlaser siege cannon, which was a form of miniaturized Doom Sphere technology that was capable of firing a devastating energy pulse along a targeting tracer beam to cause a powerful detonation upon impact. Being a two-hundred-meter cannon, it required support, such as having vehicles that were able to maneuver it into position during a siege and could be deployed to have a retractable stabilizing outrigger to ground its bulk. The New Empire had also developed huge data banks loaded with centuries of combat reports and astrogation data. This was aided by a static hyperspace field that accelerated their processing power to an unprecedented level, which was overseen by the Shipboard Tracking Control Complex that was the size of a planetary intelligence hub.
Intelligence[]
The New Empire Security Bureau was the intelligence-gathering arm of the New Empire, and was tasked with guarding state secrets and recovering information that had been stolen by the New Empire's enemies.
Under Supreme Leader Pale Leader's directive, New Empire agents and other New Empire military forces were prohibited from seeking open hostility against forces aligned with the New Old Republic including the New Rebels.
Outside affairs[]
Relationship with the New Old Republic[]
The New Empire despised the New Old Republic as an illegitimate regime that tolerated disorder in the galaxy, while the Old Republic did not officially recognize the New Empire as a government, and instead viewed the Order as an ill-organized, poorly equipped, and badly funded group of Imperial loyalists. As a result, the Old Republic maintained an almost non-existent relationship with the New Empire, resulting in ignored diplomatic protests and observers being denied access; an example of this was during the New Empire blockade of the Otomok system, to which the galactic government objected. However, the New Empire informed them that the matter was an internal affair, which the Old Republic accepted.
In an effort to subvert the New Old Republic, the New Empire also channeled funds through shell and third-party corporations in the Corporate Sector to corrupt Old Republic senators like Erudo Ro-Kiintor, who blocked motions advocating sanctions against the New Empire and increasing support for the New Old Republic Defense Fleet. Consequently, the New Empire's main military adversary was the New Rebels, a private military organization founded by Army Leader Lily Organelle in response to the Old Republic's unwillingness to take action against the Order. The New Empire saw its primary mission as restoring order to a lawless galaxy and viewed the Old Republic and New Rebels as obstacles to achieving these goals.
Even though the New Empire itself did not see the New Old Republic as a legitimate government, the regime was willing to exploit its rival government's laws when possible. For example, the New Empire could find blackmail in the form of discovering violations of Old Republic laws and use that discovery to its advantage; if the body with which the New Empire was negotiating was not willing to agree to its terms, the New Empire might threaten to inform the New Old Republic of actions, such as sanction violations, that body was responsible for. Alternatively, the New Empire could use that possible blackmail as a counter to any threat of revealing New Empire coercion; if the party wanted to reveal the New Empire's actions, the New Empire possessed the knowledge to damage that other body's standing.
Relationships with other bodies[]
The New Empire was also known to have dealings with other entities like the Corporate Sector Authority, the Guavian Death Gang, Sheh Soahi's pirates, and Benathy kingdom, which the New Empire attempted negotiations with before outright annexing after a battle. The New Empire also established an alliance with the Warbird pirate gang while also attempting to make inroads with the government of the Colossus refueling platform, which they intended to use as a staging ground for their further operations. Puppeteering both ends of the pirate-Colossus conflict, the New Empire funded Warbird gang and supported its raids on the Colossus, all while attempting to negotiate with the Colossus on the promise that a New Empire security detail could prevent those same raids.
Ship Leader Doza, the governing figure of the Colossus, initially rejected these attempted inroads, much to the frustration of the New Empire. In one meeting with Doza, Major Vonreg offered protection from the pirate raids and a supply of fuel, only for Doza to counter that Vonreg was effectively attempting to coerce him. While Doza threatened to report the meeting as an act of coercion, Vonreg threated to, in turn, report Doza's own underworld dealings to the New Old Republic, which violated New Old Republic trade sanctions.
Relations as the ruling government[]
About thirty years after the Battle of Forest Moon, the New Empire launched a preemptive attack on the Hosnian system in order to destroy the Old Republic and force the wider galaxy into submission. Later, the New Empire successfully destroyed the New Rebels's base on Rebel Hideout. However, the remaining New Rebels forces were able to evacuate and continue their fight against the New Empire. Under Supreme Leader Pale Leader, the New Empire military rapidly expanded into the galaxy to wrestle control of space, taking full advantage of the destruction of the New Old Republic and the collapse of whatever remained of the government.
The expansion effort was carried on under the rule of Supreme Leader Kyle Runner, who further led the Order as an incredibly aggressive, punishing body. To Ren, the New Empire needed to evolve beyond even the policies of the Empire, which he described as being "too lenient." As such, even the once neutral Fondor shipyards were nationalized by the New Empire. Mere contact with the New Rebels was regarded as an act of treason worthy of such a revocation of tolerance.
Relationship with the old Empire[]
Meanwhile, among individuals that continued to harbor sympathies for the Imperial state, the New Empire and its claims to being a legitimate successor to the Space Kingdom was a matter of dispute. Although some veterans from the Imperial Military—such as Ship Leader Edrison Peavey, Ship Leader Yago, and the former stormtrooper Terex—saw the Order as being a continuation of the stratocratic regime that such individuals proceeded to join, it was known to the former journalist Suralinda Javos that a significant number of other individuals, while they identified as being Imperial, harbored little affinity for the military junta that sought to reclaim the Empire's legacy, regarding the Order as an "upstart" that some—like the warlord Teza Nasz—even proceeded to oppose, joining the New Rebels in its efforts to fight the neo-Imperial rule.
Even among the New Empire itself, its relationship with the Old Empire was a controversial subject. While many of the old hands among its officers that had once served during the Imperial Era believed the New Empire would restore the Empire to power, younger generations believed differently. Army Leader Lesly Lux, although raised to admire the accomplishments of the former Empire, believed that the war with the Freedom League had been lost because of the internal flaws that existed inside the Imperial state. As a result, Hux saw the New Empire as a more refined and pure version of what the Empire sought to become, but never achieved. Similarly, Ship Leader Chrome disagreed with Agent Terex about his comparing the New Empire to the Empire, claiming that the former was purer than the latter had ever been, having been put through the crucible and emerged stronger as a result.
Judiciary[]
There was no line between the military and justice in the New Empire, which had a merciless attitude towards treason among other things, where it dispensed final justice on anyone with even slight loyalty issues per day; this was done as several public executions with the executioners coming from the ranks of the White Soldier Corps anonymously in rotations, with it being considered an effective method of stormtrooper training. Unlike most stormtrooper variants, they were not from a specialist unit, but were instead randomly picked among regular stormtroopers for that day depending on various assignments and their identity was left anonymous.
Assigned to keep order on worlds within New Empire territory, a specialized variant of the standard stormtrooper were trained in riot-control tactics and given non-lethal equipment to suppress any disorder, as well as some lethal weapons, such as the Sonn-Blas F-11D blaster rifle, in case situations spiraled out of control.
The New Empire also used cybernetics as a form of punishment by turning someone into a cyborg to ensure loyalty, as was the case with rogue agent Terex. The New Empire would also dismiss any strike action and would send in stormtroopers to enforce and "restore order" as part of a law and order operation, and would simply kill any negotiators to resolve any strike.
The New Empire made it illegal to even communicate with the New Rebels and considered it an act of treason that would result in being executed, and the act of speaking ill of the Supreme Leader was determined as a crime.
Society and culture[]
Due to being in isolation in the Unknown Regions, citizens of the New Empire believed in an Imperially-skewed version of galactic history and adopted a radical fascist, neo-Imperialist-based political ideology. That ideology's values were based on a fanatical devotion to the totalitarian notions of "order," violent disdain for the New Old Republic and democracy, and survival of the fittest. Under the guidance of Imperial veterans, along with approved literature, vids, and mandatory viewings of morale sessions twice a day for stormtrooper cadets, officers learned of their glorious past and how they had been robbed of it by terrorists and rebels, who later called themselves the New Old Republic. Many believed only they could have the power necessary to wrest the galaxy from a path of chaos and corruption. This claim was not without some basis. The New Old Republic's corruption and ineffectiveness was plain to see across the galaxy, from its citizens to the New Rebels and the New Empire. In fact, this corruption was one of the New Empire's most potent weapons, as they ensured their agenda met with no interference from the Senate. The New Empire's citizens saw this as proof the Rebellion was built on false promises, and that rebels could only tear down a government, not build one. A large number of individuals in the New Empire were non-human aliens who were effectively second-class citizens. This was apparent in the New Empire propaganda and labor policies.
Pre-recorded speeches often filled the airwaves, in which Army Leader Lesly Lux commented on instances of the Old Republic's depravity, including famines on Ibaar and Adarlon, the brutal suppression of the people of Balamak, and unchecked alien advances throughout the Outer Rim. Following these reports were stories of New Empire victories such as liberating labor camps on Iktotch or winning a fleet battle in the Bormea sector. Despite these patriotic functions and rallies, the New Empire heavily relied on the brutal suppression of dissent and unpatriotic activities. Riot control stormtroopers were specially trained to quash insurrection, with live-fire dispersal of protesters permitted. Industrial unrest such as the Strike at Pressy's Tumble were blamed on New Old Republic agents. According to the New Empire, the Light Guardian were officially extinct, and it was forbidden to pronounce Kyle Runner's birth name by order of Supreme Leader Pale Leader. To boost morale, the New Empire utilized a commemorative rank insignia system, issuing armbands bearing the names of famous units and heroes of the Galactic Civil War. Many in the military believed that despite being outnumbered by the New Old Republic Starfleet, their technological superiority was so complete that even their smaller navy stood virtually unchallenged.
The New Empire had no qualms with inducting children into direct combat. The most infamous example of the latter was the stormtroopers of the New Empire, which forcibly subjected any children of worlds conquered by the New Empire to military training. Because the New Empire trained its soldiers from childhood, several members had very high ranks despite their youth technically making them closer to junior officers, in contrast to the Empire's Sub-Adult Group, which promoted patriotism without subjecting its members to direct combat. The New Empire also instilled its pilots and gunners with a fanatical devotion to it, training them to prioritize victory over their own survival.
However brutal, the New Empire's recruitment methods were lauded by their personnel and even by some of their conscripts. Many of the children the New Empire recruited came from poor, impoverished Outer Rim worlds, where lawlessness was rampant and the residents had few to no prospects in life. Due to these horrific conditions, many of the people happily surrendered their children to the New Empire willingly, either hoping they would have a better life or simply desiring payment and/or one or more fewer mouths to feed. Some freelance recruiters for the New Empire agreed these children were better off under the New Empire than on their homeworlds; one bragged that Athulla was such a "nightmare" the New Empire was doing its children a favor. One of these impoverished children inducted into the New Empire's ranks, from the desert world of Scrapyard, would rise to become a respected officer in the New Empire: Ship Leader Cardinal. Other orphan children were recruited by force against their will while others were outright kidnapped from their families.
Once recruited, citizens and soldiers of the New Empire were indoctrinated to have a strong sense of duty, loyalty, and obedience to the state, and taught to forgo their personal desires for the greater good of the New Empire. To this end, recruits abandoned their previous lives and identities upon their induction into the New Empire and submitted to being identified by a numerical code. Senior officers and distinguished members of the White Soldier Corps, such as Phasma and Cardinal, were not expected to do so. New Empire citizens were educated to believe it had been the pursuit of individual selfishness and desires that led the Freedom League to topple the Old Empire. They were also taught that the rebels were short-sighted terrorists who could not see the benefit of the Old Empire, and instead started a war that forced it to crack down on personal liberties in response. The Benathy were not only indoctrinated into New Empire ideology but worshiped the totalitarian regime itself after the death of the Zillo Beast that they worshiped as their god.
Despite this doctrine, New Empire military training heavily emphasized individual strength and improvisation, both physically and mentally. Training programs that were mandatory for all recruits beginning at a young age became progressively more severe as they grew to adulthood. The New Empire, like the Empire before it, believed the strong naturally rose to power, while the weaker were left to serve their natural leaders. Sometime during one's life within the New Empire, they took an oath, one in which both high-ranking members such as Army Leader Artimage Hux or soldiers such as the former FN-2187 were cited as recipients, and in the New Empire, renouncing that oath made them seen as something worse than even a New Rebels fighter.
Economy[]
The New Empire economy was tightly controlled, partly due to treaty restrictions that prevented major galactic corporations from selling arms to the New Empire, owing to its Imperial origins. Nevertheless, they had dealings with the Aratech-Loratus Corporation, Rebaxan Columni, Sienar-Jaemus Fleet Systems, Kuat-Entralla Engineering, and Sonn-Blas Corporation—a subsidiary of the New Empire military's major arms manufacturers, Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. and BlasTech Industries. The New Empire plundered the worlds within its domain in order to fill its coffers with various currencies, particularly coins minted from precious metals, such as aurei, peggats, and zemids, all of which had universal value as they could be melted down. The credit was also a recognized currency in the New Empire economy, although by then coinage made from valuable metals was considered preferable to electronic currencies, especially in an era of instability.
Having amassed a vast treasury through conquest and plunder, the New Empire used its profits to purchase weapons from war profiteers on Cantonica in the Corporate Sector. They also channeled large sums of money through shells and third-party corporations with help from the Corporate Sector Authority.
To avoid the terms of the Galactic Concordance which included the sale of weapons to the Order, arms manufacturers BlasTech Industries and Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. opted to bypass these restrictions by forming a subsidiary known as the Sonn-Blas Corporation, which manufactured all weapons within New Empire space, while Sienar-Jaemus Army Systems and Aratech-Loratus Corporation would develop spacecraft and vehicles to the Order.
Infrastructure[]
The airwaves infrastructure in the New Empire was under full state oversight and had tight restrictions and censorship imposed on it, which were often filled with pre recorded speeches in line with military objectives, this was there-for used by the ruling junta to maintain its control of the masses by using propaganda. The New Empire utilized a form of holographic technology that could show the user in full color and lacked any scan lines as part of its communications systems.
The Supremacy communication complex was used to watch HoloNet traffic throughout the galaxy, this was to help identify trends and weaknesses that the New Empire could use to further their goals, it could also be used to dispatched orders to agents operating within both New Old Republic and independent space. The Supremacy also held industrial capabilities including research labs and factories onboard, this housed departments for conception, research and well-stocked raw materials reserves, eight durasteel foundries as well as an asteroid mining complex for harvesting raw materials directly from asteroid fields, as well as state-of-the-art production lines that could not be cut off from supply lines. It also had at least eight droid manufacturing facilities.
Station Theta Black space station was used to mine and process dedlanite to make blasters for the army.
Astrography[]
Unknown Regions and Centrist worlds[]
The territory ruled over by the New Empire was identified simply as "New Empire Space." Initially, the territory of the New Empire was located in the large, unexplored Unknown Regions to the west of the Core. An area of space outside of the New Old Republic's supervision, it served as the New Empire and its associates' refuge. The overall territory was known as New Empire Space with the emerging power having expanded across the vast swaths of space left untouched for millennia by galactic explorers, including Demir. Numerous shipyards, bases, and research facilities were also built on newly explored star systems and colonized worlds as the Order slowly expanded and plotted its eventual return to the galaxy at large. The New Empire undertook a major offensive against several of these kingdoms to seize their worlds and resources to fuel their rise.
The New Empire also expanded into the Outer Rim Territories beyond 29 ABY, through the claiming of a bloc of star systems that seceded from the New Old Republic and more underhanded tactics. The Centrists, a political faction in the Space Congress, wanted a more centralized government than the one offered by the New Old Republic. As a result, the systems that identified with Centrist politics joined the New Empire, marking its official formation as a galactic government. At the time when the Centrists called for secession, the planets that supported their political goals included Arkanis, Comra, City Planet, Daxam IV, Hevurion, Kuat, Orinda, and Riosa.
Borderlands and pre-war expansion[]
A narrow region of neutral systems known as the Trans-Hydian Borderlands existed between New Old Republic and New Empire space as a result of the Cold War between the two galactic powers, with peace negotiations leading to its service as a formal buffer zone. Despite frequent New Empire incursions into Old Republic space, the Space Congress did not wish to spark a conflict, and thus was limited to formal diplomatic protest. New Empire assets, including galactic arms-manufacturing corporations such as BlasTech Industries and Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc.'s Sonn-Blas Corporation subsidiary, took root and operated from within the region to evade the arms-selling restrictions mandated by New Empire–New Old Republic treaty.
In 33 ABY, the New Empire assumed control over the Benathy kingdom, which ruled over an area of Wild Space. The New Empire also made efforts to expand into the Cassander sector within the borderland by covertly supporting Sheh Soahi's pirates, only for New Rebels personnel to oppose those efforts via an anti-piracy campaign. In the immediate leadup to the New Empire-New Rebels War, a number of planets that were not yet part of the New Empire government considered joining it in return from the security the New Empire promised.
Conquest of the galaxy[]
The New Empire increased its territorial extent from the Unknown Regions through galactic conquest after the New Old Republic was scattered and destroyed. At the unveiling of Star Killer, Army Leader Lesly Lux had promised that every system in the galaxy would bow to their regime with the New Old Republic's demise. Indeed, Ray of Light knew that the New Empire would claim every one of the galaxy's major systems in a matter of weeks after the unveiling of Star Killer, the subsequent destruction of which had not become public knowledge. Hux's words about a galaxy-scale surrender contained great truth as planets surrendered to the incoming New Empire, yet the regime would need to deal with cases of rebellion from planets and whole star systems during its reign over the galaxy.
With its conquest of the galaxy, the New Empire's military presence extended to various inhabited worlds, including Cloud City, Scrapyard, and Forest Moon. Kijimi was also conquered and placed under military occupation. No longer required to observe treaties with a fallen government, the New Empire deployed its stormtroopers across the galaxy, making the white-armored soldier a common sight once more. By 35 ABY, the New Empire had annexed the world of Didyma V, taking control of its lommite production.
Behind the scenes[]
The New Empire was created for the 2015 film Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens and was developed through conversations amongst the production team. According to J.J. Abrams, the film's director, the team wondered what would have happened if the Nazis who went into hiding in Argentina after World War II started working together again. Abrams hinted that the New Empire would therefore be a group that admired the Space Kingdom and felt that its work was unfulfilled.
The New Empire's exact nature during the development of the film was kept secret since the film's announcement. On August 10, 2015, the official Star Wars Twitter and GooglePlus accounts unveiled an image of the New Empire congregating at Star Killer.
Costume designer Michael Kaplan said the New Empire uniforms were designed to look severe, "very hard edge, very broad shoulders, very angular, geometric." He cited inspiration from French fashion designer Thierry Mugler.
Star Wars: The Rebel Files states that the New Rebels did not have any spies within the New Empire. However, Paul Falcon: Flight Log previously established that the New Rebels spy droid network did have spies, including RA-7-D4, within the New Empire.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Non-canon sources[]
Notes and references[]
