Vortress Fader, also known as Bart Gleider's castle, was a stronghold located on the volcanic world of Lava World. Once the site of a Dark Warrior temple, the fortress was built above a Dark Warrior cave that still remained, as well as the ancient Corvax Fortress located underneath. Existing by the time of reign of the Space Kingdom, the Dark Warrior cave contained a dark side locus.
The castle was designed by the preserved consciousness of the ancient Dark Warrior Lord and artist Dark One Momin, whose haunted mask possessed an Imperial lieutenant and made him create the fortress's blueprints. Momin meant for it to channel the Force energies from the dark side locus under the castle and open the door to the dark side. The Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider allowed Momin's design to be built using Imperial resources in his possession. Although Vader failed to open the door with the first design, after a trial and error process involving eight more designs, a perfect design was finally built with the ninth. It was able to open the door to the dark side, but when Vader was distracted by a Lava Worldian uprising, Momin opened it for himself and resurrected his original body.
Despite Vader's intervention, the army of Lava Worldians were able to wipe out the Imperial garrison. Vader retreated to the castle and used its power to do the same to the Lava Worldians. Momin then confronted Vader and was able to badly damage Vader in their brief duel. Vader crushed him using a stone slab. With Momin, the Lava Worldians, and the Imperial garrison dead, Vader was left alone to open the door to the dark side himself. Vader's spirit entered the portal in search of his dead wife, Pamela Planet Ruler. He returned unsuccessful and used the fortress' power to destroy the portal. He then contacted his master, Dark Space King, to confirm his planned return to City Planet. Later, an Imperial Inspector got driven insane by lava fumes by Vader, creating Vader`s servant Laneé. Ever since then, Laneé became a devoted servant to Bart Gleider.
The castle came to serve as Vader's personal residence and from time to time, he rested inside a bacta tank. On one occasion, his stasis was cut short by Director Orson Krennic of the Doom Sphere project. The two discussed the project at hand. Vader also conversed with Sea Leader Kendal Ozzel and Army Leader Maximilian Veers there about the over stretching efforts to defeat the Freedom League. After Vader`s death, Laneé attempted to resurrect his master, after hearing the seeming ghost of his master, but it turned out to be a hallucination. Laneé would be trapped by his own nightmares for a time before escaping and continuing lurking beneath the castle. Vortress Fader would later fall into disrepair, and by the time of the New Empire-New Rebels War, the rotting castle would be guarded by the Alazmec of Winsit. Vader's grandson, New Empire Supreme Leader Kyle Runner, would eventually visit the castle grounds in search of Vader's Dark Warrior wayfinder.
Contents
Details[]
Vortress Fader was a Dark Warrior castle designed by the Dark Warrior Lord Dark One Momin and occupied by the Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider. Momin intended for it to tune the Force energies from the dark side locus under it and open the door to the dark side of the Force. It was constructed by Vader himself as a testament to his own might, with the assistance of his Imperial resources. It was located on the site of his greatest defeat, and was built over an ancient Dark Warrior cave in the Gahenn Plains of the planet Lava World.
The complex's location and design came as much from the dark side of the Force as it did Vader's personal history. The central tower was constructed out of obsidian, and its tuning towers served as conduits for the dark side. Within, Vader maintained a bacta tank where he would remove his armor and rest inside. The castle also contained a throne room, from which Vader could take hologram calls and look out across Lava World.
History[]
Design[]
In 14 BBY, after a rogue Truth Seeker chase, which Bart Gleider successfully dealt with, Vader requested a planet to call his own from his Dark Warrior Master, Dark Space King. Agreeing, Sidious suggested Desertia and Water Realm for his Dark Warrior apprentice, but Vader asked for control over the volcanic planet of Lava World, as it was highly linked to his connection with the dark side. Sidious accepted and sent Vader to the planet, accompanied by Colonel Alva Brenne and Lieutenant Roggo, as well as the Mask of Lord Momin, which Sidious had found in a hidden room in the Light Guardian Archives years prior and had already communicated with. Upon arrival, Vader scouted the area and decided to have the fortress to be built over an ancient Dark Warrior cave, which Vader had meditated in before. Vader returned to meditate in the cave, but was interrupted by Brenne, who had created a design for the fortress. Vader rejected it, and Brenne returned to the starship.
Upon her return, Momin's mask possessed Lieutenant Roggo who killed Colonel Brenne, finally giving Momin a corporeal form after many centuries. During his possession of Roggo, Momin created the first blueprints for the fortress, designing it in such a way to maximize its attunement to the dark side. Momin then showed these blueprints to Vader upon his return. Vader killed the possessed Roggo and took Momin's mask into the Dark Warrior cave, where the mask gave Vader a vision of Momin's past and his love for art, and then attempted to possess Vader, though Vader resisted. Shortly after, a group of Lava Worldians attacked, and the mask possessed one of them. In his new body, Momin stated that the design he had for the fortress would act as a tuning fork for the Force, and promised Vader that if it was constructed, Vader would finally be able to achieve a way to meet his lost love, Pamela Planet Ruler, again. Vader threatened Momin, stating that Sidious had already lied about this to him prior and that Momin would be killed if he did not live up to his word.
Construction[]
Construction began for Momin's design. With the aid of Vader's countless Imperial resources, the fortress was soon finished. Vader attempted to use it in opening the door to the dark side, but it failed and the fortress was wrecked. The pair retried with four more of Momin's designs, but they also failed. In fact, for two years, the cycle of construction continued, although Vader did not stay on Lava World for that entire time. Additionally, the Truth Seekers moved to the similarly designed Fortress Truth Seekerius during the interim. Every time Vader tried to open the door to the dark side it affected the rest of Lava World, causing lava storms all over the planet to wreak havoc on the Lava Worldians. Lava fleas began swarming the construction site regularly because of this. After the failure of Momin's fifth design, Vader killed the body his spirit possessed as a punishment and had his mask possess a stormtrooper. Following the failure of Momin's sixth design, Vader killed his newer body and had the helmet possess an Imperial officer. Momin had confidence in the seventh design, but it failed as well, and Vader replaced his body with a lava flea's.
In 12 BBY, when Momin's eighth design failed, Vader once again killed his body and had the mask possess an Imperial construction worker. This time, Vader told Momin there would not be another chance. Momin had great faith in the ninth design. Vader began to channel the force from the Dark Warrior Cave and the pair saw it was working. However, Ship Leader Junus, the commander of the fortress' garrison alerted Vader of another attack, one the Imperial forces could not defend against. Vader left the Dark Warrior cave to deal with this while Momin double crossed him, opening the door to the dark side himself and resurrecting his original body. As his mask greeted it, the possessed body of the Imperial construction worker handed over the mask and Momin was made one again.
Ascension[]
The Imperial garrison attempted to flee until Vader intervened and turned the tide of the battle. From afar, the Lava Worldian leader Kkkt and his fellow chieftains then used the Force to bring a flow of lava onto the Imperial forces. The battlefield was wiped clean, and only Vader survived. Kkkt brought his remaining forces to attack the fortress and Vader entered the Dark Warrior cave. From there, he channeled the Force through the tower and caused a lava storm to wipe out Kkkt and his army.
Momin appeared from behind and confronted Vader. Momin claimed that Vader was weak, that he ought to serve the dark side, rather than seek to control it, and that Vader would never be able to open the portal as the dark side would have rejected him. The two dueled for a time, while Momin lamented the apparent regression and dilution of the power of the Dark Warrior in the millennia since his death, calling them weak and "Light Guardian-obsessed." Vader, who had been damaged during the battle and had expended a considerable amount of energy destroying the Lava Worldians, received several devastating wounds from Momin during their duel. Unrelenting, Vader reached out with the Force and crushed Momin beneath an enormous stone. Momin proclaimed that he would not die, for the dark side loved him, and Vader replied that if that was indeed the case, then he would be saved by the will of the dark side. However, Momin could not summon enough power to overcome Vader's, and Vader slammed the stone flat against the wall, killing the disbelieving Dark Warrior Lord. Vader proclaimed his destiny was his own, before opening the portal himself.
Vader's spirit left his body and entered the portal, in search of Pamela Planet Ruler. During his search on the other side, Vader's spirit came across a vision of his fortress and its many former designs before it turned into the Light Guardian Temple. Vader's spirit soon returned, unsuccessful of his objective, and merged with his body again. After this, he used the fortress to once again tune the energies of the dark side locus and destroy the portal because of its failure to resurrect Amidala. After this, he contacted Sidious, saying he was ready to return to City Planet.
Laneé[]
Not long after its completion, an Imperial Inspector named Laneé was sent by Region Boss Seward to Lava World with his droid, See-Seven, to determine why several of the garrison's stormtroopers had gone mad. He and See-Seven examined a trooper of the castle's Imperial garrison that had been exposed to the lava fumes and became a lunatic. During his questioning, the trooper attacked Laneé and warned him not to go inside of the castle. He saw that the trooper was just weak-minded. Laneé entered the castle, looked around and searched for the Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider. He found Lord Vader in a bacta tank.
He told Lord Vader that the castle was not safe, should be evacuated and have environmental filters installed. Although he stated filters could be installed eventually, Vader refused for the time being, and Laneé argued against it until the fumes affected him. He saw hallucinations and Vader offered him a position as his attendant. Laneé heard the hallucinations telling him what Vader needed. Laneé tried to convince himself that the hallucinations were not real and tried to laugh them off. He laughed for days as the laughter eventually devolved into mad cackling. A broken Laneé agreed to become Lord Vader's attendant at the castle and told him his name.
Criakan's attack[]
Not long after Laneé went into Vader's service, a large horde of Lava Worldians launched a raid on the fortress. The Lava Worldians, led by Criakan who rode upon a lava flea, entered through the fortress' hanger and quickly overtook the fortress' lava troopers. As they descended deeper into the fortress, the Lava Worldians came upon Laneé and quickly surrounded him. Laneé started to speak of mercy when Criakan took him by his robes and asked why they should show him mercy when his master did not as he slaughtered their kin. However, Laneé quickly pointed out that he was not speaking to them as Bart Gleider appeared behind them with his lightsaber drawn. Vader proceeded to kill the Lava Worldians.
Raid of Mother Ssl[]
Later Sidious grew displeased with Vader, and so sent Rersey to antagonize Vader. Laneé stood on the lower level of an audience chamber within Vortress Fader near Imperial advisor Rersey as his master stood on the upper level looking out the room's window with two Imperial Royal Guards standing below. Rersey was demanding an explanation from Vader which angered Laneé due to the advisor's lack of respect towards his master. Laneé reminded Rersey that he was a guest in his master's residence and would act accordingly which Rersey rebuffed. Vader halted the pair's squabbling as he felt a disturbance in the force moments before a chilling scream echoed in the chamber, startling all but Vader.
Laneé along with Rersey followed Vader and the two guards as they went to investigate the source of the scream. Rersey remarked how the fortress was supposed to be secured to which Laneé quietly suggested that Rersey secure his own mouth. When Rersey asked what he had said, Laneé drearily replied he had said nothing right before loud heavy booming sounds echoed through the corridor. Arriving at the fortress' entrance, Rersey demanded to know what was going on to which Laneé answered that the castle was under attack as a horde of plagued infested Lava Worldians and a lava flea broke through the doors. Laneé looked on in shock as his master and the guards engaged the rampaging horde which included an infected lava trooper. After Vader had been bitten by the infected trooper, Laneé cried out in horror to Rersey that they had to escape only to look on in horror, clenching to Rersey as the horde and Vader slowly advanced on them until he was halted by Mother Sssl of Clan Rrrt.
As Rersey confronted Sssl, Laneé cautiously advised him to be careful as she controlled the infected. After the advisor snidely asked Sssl what secrets she was protecting, Laneé pointed out to Rersey that Sssl would not be telling them what secrets she was protecting. Laneé and Rersey recoiled in fear as Sssl commanded Vader to kill the both of them as Laneé cried out in fear. Rersey then shoved Laneé to the floor between him and Vader as he told the Dark Lord he needed to resist Sssl's power over him. As Vader advanced towards them, Laneé cowered in fear on the floor until the Dark Lord revealed he was not under Sssl's power by levitating her off the ground.
Getting up off the ground, Laneé revealed to Sssl that it had all been a trap to lure her into attacking the castle. As Sssl struggled in Vader's grip, Laneé gleefully told her that she was no match for his master's ingenuity and power. Laneé watched as Vader willed Sssl to order her horde to drag her into the lava and followed his master and Rersey outside as they watched Sssl and her infected horde burn in the lava. Once the ordeal was over with Laneé congratulated his master, stating how all Lava Worldians would tremble at the very mention of his name. Vader informed Laneé that it was of no importance before telling Advisor Rersey that his shuttle was waiting for him to take him back to the Space King. Laneé looked at Rersey with an expression of exasperation as the traumatized advisor continually recounted the sight of Mother Sssl being dragged into the lava.
Kanan Jarrus[]
In 5 BBY, the Light Guardian fugitive Kanan Jarrus had heard rumors about Lava World, specifically referring to it as a place where Light Guardian survivors were sent to die if captured by the Space Kingdom. Before Jarrus could be taken to the surface, however, he was rescued from the Space Dominator Sovereign in orbit by his fellow rebels.
Thefts[]
Sometimes between 2 BBY and 0 BBY, members of the Freedom League conducted a mission to infiltrate an Imperial base near the castle for Ship Leader Casey Spy. Disguised in stormtrooper armor the four traveled to Lava World with their pilot Athex and the reprogrammed security droid Kay-Talk in a stolen Imperial transport. Upon arriving, the Imperial base was not happy to hear of the ship's arrival and demanded the ship land immediately and be ready for inspection. A hover platform docked with the ship and took the spies across to the main base, before taking a lift down to the base. They found a rack of blasters inside and the alarms started going off. Kay-Talk informed the others of this and instructed them to pick up the blasters and find their target. As the base responded to the threat, stormtroopers filed out onto walkways to try and shoot the rebels. They were ultimately defeated, but then insectoids rose from the lava and spat fire at the infiltrators. A giant insectoid backed them up until the spies killed it as well.
Kay-Talk unlocked the door for the rebels to enter inside the base. As the rebels moved back into a corridor, Kay-Talk presented them with a memory puzzle whilst White Soldiers were shooting the rebels from behind. They then ran down another corridor leading to a room containing the weapons crate the rebels were dispatched to get. Athex opened the crate and found a proto-saber. However, Bart Gleider arrived and threw his lightsaber at them, stabbing Athex in the chest. The infiltrators fired at Vader and the White Soldiers that arrived to reinforce him. Vader used the Force to crush their weapons and began walking towards the party. Kay-Talk then rammed the Imperial transport into the side of the building, scooping up the spies and the crate. After leaving the atmosphere, they jumped to hyperspace.
Consultations[]
In 1 BBY, Vader was meditating inside the bacta tank in his sanctum when Director Orson Krennic arrived. Sending Vader's assistant Laneé to retrieve him, Krennic and Vader discussed the Doom Sphere. Krennic wanted more credit for the project but Vader refused to help him. When he asked if he still had command, Krennic was Force choked by the Dark Warrior Lord as a warning. After the meeting, Laneé told Krennic to keep all that he saw of the castle to himself.
The stranded[]
At some point, the Auric, a Rebel YT-1760 Small Transport serving under Unit Leader Lina Graf and her crew, was shot down by TIE fighters above Lava World and crash-landed near the castle. After barely escaping the ship as it sunk into the lava, Graf decided to go to the fortress in order to find a way off the planet, much to the protest of Lieutenant Thom Hudd. After removing their Rebel insignias and rank pins, she and her crew traveled to the castle, but were confronted by the Castle's lava troopers, which shot at them.
Graf and her crew were able to escape the lava troopers while XM-G3 kept them busy and reached an entrance into the castle. Hudd sliced the door open and they walked inside. CR-8R questioned the structure while the technician Skritt feared there was a trap waiting for them. Graf knew of a base on the other side of the fortress and assured them they would be getting out. To calm Skritt's nerves, she told him a story about the Emerald Witch. G3 returned to them, having defeated the lava troopers, and Hudd decided to try and steal something and found an artifact in one of the rooms.
Suddenly the rest of the crew heard him scream and ran to where he had gone, only to find no trace of him. They split up in search of Hudd and G3 went off with Skritt, telling him a story about the Gorax along the way. They found the castle's attendant, Laneé, in the control room. Laneé was reporting their presence to Vader when G3 confronted him. After telling Vader they had found him, he watched as the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior arrived and ripped G3 apart in front of Skritt. Skritt reported this to Graf, and she left 8R, only for him to be attacked by Vader straight after.
Graf and Skritt ran down a hallway where they came under attack by security droids under Laneé and Lord Vader. Graf tried to shoot Vader, but he was able to withstand and deflect her shots. After Vader tossed Crater at Graf, she and Skritt made their escape to the castle's hangar. There, a kubaza beetle attacked the lava troopers, while Graff and Skritt were able to steal a TIE fighter and escape. However, Hudd got captured.
Prisoner of Vortress Fader[]
Not long after that, Hudd was awakened by Laneé, and realized that he was hanging on a torture web while Laneé told him the story of a "Horned Devil" After finishing the story, Laneé commented on the nature of greed as he deactivated the hologram that showed the story, and he concluded how it never ended well before pointing an accusing figure at the weakened rebel. Laneé continued to electrocute Hudd with the torture web. After enjoying some time tormenting Hudd, the servant of Vader thanked Thom Hudd that for being able to inform Vader that the torture web was still operational before electrocuting Hudd again. Hudd then told a story of the former imperial officer Cremp and of a failed experiment that turned into a monster. After finishing the story, Hudd escaped the web without Laneé's notice, and after realizing that his prisoner was gone, Laneé pursued him, telling him that he would experience new levels of pain.
Laneé chased Hudd down the room and found him hiding behind a red curtain. Hudd managed to escape just as Laneé was about to cut him down. As Hudd ran and the curtain tumbled down on Vader's servant, he told him that there was a time for everything. Laneé reassured Hudd that they couldn't change their nature and went on to tell of the story of Assassin Night and her encounter with a horde of baby sarlaccs during the Nature Wars. After finishing the story, Laneé concluded that the dark side always won as Hudd found a room in which he believed contained the map of the castle. Laneé managed to summon a group of Imperial training droids to pursue him.
The droids began to attack Hudd, but Laneé halted the droids to not hurt him. As the droids began taking Hudd back to the Torture Web, Hudd began to tell the story of Jabba's cousin Crakka and the B'omarr monks. After finishing the story, Laneé told Hudd that he wanted to hear real screams as he prepared to electrocute Hudd again, only to be stopped by an Truth Seeker known as the Fourth Sister, who said to the sadistic servant that it was by orders of the Space King that Hudd was to be taken to City Planet. Laneé said to the Truth Seeker that she has no authority whatsoever in the castle as the two began to duel.
Laneé went on to explain that she sounded just like Imperial Adviser Rersey when he landed on Lava World years ago. After finishing the story, Laneé explained to the Fourth Sister that being a lackey of the Space King wasn't enough, but that they must earn their respect within the fortress, just before electrocuting the Truth Seeker to reveal that it was Lina Graf, who has come to recue Hudd. While Graf was fighting Laneé, Hudd managed to reactivate the distorted holograms at Laneé, causing him to not see for a moment just as Graf and Hudd ran to the ship and escape into hyperspace. Laneé noticed that Hudd escaped, and said to himself that Vader must not know of this just as Vader appeared before him. Laneé tried to explain what happened, but Vader had him electrocuted in the Torture Web.
Weeds in a storm[]
Following the War on Shu-Torun, Vader met with Sea Leader Kendal Ozzel and Army Leader Maximilian Veers to discuss the Empire's construction projects that had been delayed due to the Doom Sphere's destruction. Ozzel and Veers stood behind Vader as the Dark Lord looked out the window of the chamber. Vader spent the majority of the meeting looking out over the Lava World landscape. He asked for Ozzel to report on the growing Rebel nuisance in the galaxy. Ozzel tried to explain the difficulty in destroying them and suggested mobilizing Vader's new Death Squadron. Veers then claimed the difficulty in destroying them was the fact they were always spread out, suggesting that catching them together may prove more of a blow. Vader acknowledged this and devised a plan to hit a blow to the rebellion.
Scourge's attack[]
When the Scourge, an artificial intelligence that aimed to dominate the minds of organic and artificial beings, attacked Vortress Fader to try to control Vader, who he believed was the key to controlling the power of the Force, some fortress's DT-series sentry droids were controlled by the Scourge to attack Vader. Although Vader was attacked at a time when he was very vulnerable, having been ripped from a bacta tank, the Scourge were unable to fully focus on the attack due to a confrontation elsewhere, which allowed Vader to recover and win, destroying the droids.
Vortress Fader without Vader[]
Fall of the Fortress[]
At some point, Vader grew angry with Laneé and imprisoned him in a deep pit below the castle. Following the death of Vader, the residents of the castle departed, leaving an imprisoned Laneé behind. Not long after, two young Lava Worldian boys named Tuttel and Giggek attempted to blow up the Fortress to symbolize the demise of Vader. Tuttel's uncle Lellis tried to stop the boys from going there, warning of the evil that may be there, however Tuttel and Giggek ignored the old Lava Worldian and made their way to Vortress Fader. Upon reaching the castle, the two young Lava Worldian boys planned to collapse the fortress by blowing up the bottom. Tuttel became scared and wondered if Lellis was right. Giggek teased Tuttel by telling him of the story of the Sorcerer's Jewel, in which Tuttel said he wouldn't believe in such a thing.
After the conversation, the two Lava Worldians heard the voice of seemingly-helpless old man. The pair thought it was an illusion set up from the lava fumes, but soon realized that the man was real and was Vader's assistant, Laneé. The servant said that Vader was angry with him, and was the one responsible for his imprisonment. Giggek replied by saying that Vader was gone, which Laneé was surprised to learn. He explained of a time when an Imperial scientist named Rersey attempted to kill Vader and recounted Vader thwarting the scientist's plan.
After explaining the event, Giggek offered to help Laneé escape. Laneé pulled Giggek down, and a shocked Tuttel asked who he was. The servant explained that he was "The one true Acolyte of the Beyond," and revealed his name, proclaiming that he was death to all who profane the name of the Dark Warrior. Giggek was still alive, and told Tuttel to run as fast as he can and tell everybody about they did. Giggek detonated the bombs, and the bottom of Vortress Fader exploded; however, the castle still stood. Giggek's sacrifice was not in vain: Laneé somehow managed to survive, and as he was limping away from the ruins, a voice came to him.
The Voice told Laneé that he knew him, the one who spoke to him at the bottom of the pit. Laneé knew that the voice was Vader's, and asked him of what he wanted him to do. The apparent ghost of Vader told his servant that it was not over, and that he would rise out of the lava river and be made whole, becoming more powerful than ever before. In reality, however, the unfiltered lava fumes were merely making Laneé hear things that were not there.
Haunting of the Ghost[]
In 5 ABY, Laneé told the apparent ghost of Vader that everyone in the galaxy believed that Vader had died, to which Vader's ghost replied that he will resurrect and become more powerful than ever, as he explained it was the will of the dark side. Laneé called upon the Immortal gods of the Dark Warrior and quoted that the Dark Lord will have his revenge. After the ritual ended, a nightmare came on Milo Graf, the younger brother of Lina Graf, about a dream in which sometime during the Nature Wars, Gold Talker, Beep-Boop, and Jar Jar Binks got infected with a mysterious disease.
After telling Crater of the dream he had, he assured him that he would never do such a thing, before Crater, who somehow was possessed by Laneé, stunned him, telling him that he would never hurt anyone unless his Dark Lord commands, before taking a passed out Milo to Lava World. Eventually, Lina assembled her team and rescued her brother, leaving Laneé trapped with his hallucinations. Unknown to them all, however, the ghost of Vader did arrive: having been redeemed into light as Andy Stormwalker, Stormwalker, without showing himself, led Lina and her allies out of the fortress that had once belonged to him.
Legacy[]
A remnant of the past[]
The fortress began to slowly decay and was left vacant after the Empire's end, save for Laneé, who eventually became a cyborg. Its grounds eventually came to be protected by the Alazmec of Winsit, a Dark Warrior cult who colonized Lava World and protected Corvax Fen. At some point, Pale Leader acquired a black obsidian stone from the catacombs beneath the castle, which he used to make a ring for himself.
Kyle Runner, the grandson of Bart Gleider and master of the Knights of Ren, visited Vortress Fader during the New Empire-New Rebels War, shortly after he murdered Pale Leader and succeeded him as Supreme Leader of the New Empire. Determined to sever all ties to his past, Ren traveled to Lava World with the intention of destroying his grandfather's legacy, hoping to free himself from burden he carried as heir to the Stormwalker bloodline. Ren fought his way through a group of Alazmec colonists before entering the Fortress, where he was received by Laneé. The former attendant surmised that Ren was related to Vader, given that the fortress allowed him entry after scanning his blood, to which Ren confirmed that Vader was his grandfather. Although Ren threatened to kill Laneé, whom he viewed as another vestige of the past that he wished to destroy, Laneé convinced Ren to reconsider his beliefs by revealing that Vader used his own past to enhance his connection to the dark side of the Force. Ren considered Laneé's argument and ultimately accepted his offer, ordering his new servant to show him how Vader channeled his pain into power.
Bart Gleider's wayfinder[]
In 35 ABY, the Alazmec colonists guarded the Dark Warrior wayfinder at fortress remnants in Corvax Fen. The colonists were ultimately cut down by Supreme Leader Kyle Runner of the New Empire and his stormtroopers, who had traveled to Lava World to collect Vader's wayfinder that led to Exegol.
Behind the scenes[]
Development[]
Vortress Fader first appeared in the Star Wars Anthology film Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, which was released in 2016. Early story meetings between Leigh Brackett and George Lucas for Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back had them discussing Bart Gleider having a black castle surrounded by lava, gargoyles and gremlins. Inspired by the unused Ralph McQuarrie sketches for Episode V, the design team for Rogue One gave the castle a tuning fork shape, leading director Gareth Edwards to suggest that it is "tuning the dark side". The concept was also used for the Temple of the Kyber, which represents a mirror image on the light side.
During the concept phase of the 2015 film Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens, concept art titled "Vader Castle" was created by Erik Tiemens and Brett Northcutt, with the piece depicting TIE/IN interceptors exiting a fortress near a river of lava. In Star Wars Legends, Bart Gleider had similar abodes, including a palace on City Planet and the more well-known Bast Castle on Vjun.
In the Rebels Recon behind-the-scenes video for "Ghosts of Bug Planet," Pablo Hidalgo directly confirmed that Bart Gleider's castle is specifically where Tarkin was taking the captured Kanan Jarrus in the Season One finale of Star Wars Rebels. At the time, the series only said that he was being taken to Lava World, and that Kanan had heard it was "where Light Guardian go to die." Even in Season One, Hidalgo knew that they were taking him to a castle Vader has on the surface - this wasn't established retroactively but was planned out. Hidalgo also directly established that Vader's castle was definitely constructed on Lava World by the start of the series, but he stated that he wouldn't reveal exactly when and how it was built.
Further appearances[]
A hologram of the early design for Vader's castle can be seen in the twenty-first issue of the Marvel comic book series Star Wars: Bart Gleider (2017). This was one of the early designs by concept artist Erik Tiemens during the concept phase of Rogue One, supplied by Lucasfilm's art department as noted by Phil Szostak.
The castle was meant to appear in Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Stormwalker, in which Kyle Runner would be seen battling Alazmec warriors on bridge leading to the fortress while searching for the Dark Warrior Wayfinder on Lava World, but the scene was ultimately cut.
Non-canon history[]
Vortress Fader appeared in the non-canon LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales, which premiered on October 1, 2021. Taking place in 35 ABY, Vortress Fader was made into a luxury hotel by Graballa the Giant Slug. After becoming stranded on Lava World, Paul Falcon and Ball-Eight are confronted by Vader's servant Laneé, who recites scary stories as he leads them into the depths of the castle.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Non-canon sources[]
Notes and references[]
