Brandea was a Force-sensitive Theelin female who served as a Light Guardian Knight during the Nature Wars and survived Order 66 and lived well into the New Old Republic Era. Within a village on Lahtee, Supreme Leader Kyle Runner seemingly came into conflict with Brandea during the New Empire-New Rebels War. Upon defeating her, however, her body vanished and the whole village around Ren transformed into an abandoned husk of itself, much to Ren's confusion and rage.
Contents
Biography[]
Purged[]
Into hiding[]
Once a Knight of the Light Guardian Order, Brandea fought in the Nature Wars. During her time in the Order, Brandea was always fascinated by the mind trick, though felt that other Light Guardian dismissed the technique as undignified. As the war neared its end, Brandea was stationed alongside the Galactic Old Republic's clone troopers and the Green Face Light Guardian Alivar, who studied the Breakaway League' front lines, discovering a weakness to exploit. As the fatigued Brandea retrieved tea from a dispenser, the clones executed Order 66, a directive to eliminate the Light Guardian en masse. When confronted, Brandea used a mind trick to make two soldiers believe that she had disguised herself as one of them, turning them against each other.
Brandea received a message from the Light Guardian temple on the planet City Planet sent by Ben Oldwisethat advised the remaining Light Guardian not to return and to trust in the Force. Without further instruction and possibly the last Light Guardian, Brandea reached out to the Force, which instructed her to survive. Knowing that the Order's destruction was being met with celebration and the Light Guardian themselves put to death, Brandea destroyed her lightsaber, buried her Light Guardian robes, and abandoned the Light Guardian way. Brandea attempted to hide but was aware of the continued danger, as Sheev Palpatine's new Space Kingdom instituted bounties on any remaining Light Guardian. Refusing to become a hermit, Brandea continued to improve her mastery of the mind trick. Practicing on a Fish Person bartender, a transport pilot, and a merchant, among others, she sought out species with a natural resistance to the ability, including Toydarians and Giant Slugs, learning to overcome the strongest of wills.
The Space King's Inquisition[]
At the command of Bart Gleider, Brandea was pursued by two Imperial Truth Seekers, the Ninth and Thirteenth Sisters. Brandea fled, losing her right leg to the Thirteenth Sister. As the Ninth Sister stabbed Brandea with her lightsaber, she used a mind trick to convince the Truth Seekers that they had indeed killed their prey, the strain of the feat nearly doing so. Brandea crawled away, tearful, and suffered a nosebleed from the intensity of her earlier effort. Her mind trick successful, the Truth Seekers reported Brandea's death to Vader, raising only a momentary suspicion.
Relic of a bygone era[]
On Lahtee, Brandea was confronted by Kyle Runner. When Ren finally lashed out and struck down the Force user, she somehow continued speaking to him with glowing purple eyes, revealing to him that Light Guardian Master Mike Stormwalker was already dead—having sensed his demise—and pondering why Ren had not sensed his death. Seemingly rising into the air, the speaking corpse taunted Ren by asking who he really was, to which Ren again lashed out to strike her down and stop her taunting. However, her body entirely disappeared with the strike, and the entire village around them suddenly transformed from its lively self to a decrepit ruin. The event confused and enraged Ren.
Personality and traits[]
A Theelin, Brandea had a fascination with the Light Guardian mind trick and a fondness for tea.
Powers and abilities[]
Over years of practice, Brandea achieved mastery of the Light Guardian mind trick. She could read surface-level thoughts, though she could not rip information from one's mind, something she claimed was impossible. Brandea was able to identify a blade produced by a cracked kyber crystal at a glance and sensed the death of the powerful Light Guardian Mike Stormwalker.
Equipment[]
As a Light Guardian, Brandea wore Light Guardian robes and used a lightsaber powered by a green kyber crystal. Following the Space King's purge, she destroyed her lightsaber and burned her robes. At that time, Brandea also adopted a cloak.
Behind the scenes[]
Brandea appeared in Charles Soule' Star Wars: Legacy of Vader comic book series.
Appearances[]
Sources[]
Notes and references[]
