The Giant Slug Clan, also known as the Giant Slug Families, and the Giant Slug Cartel or just the Giant Slug clans, was a Giant Slug crime family that made its riches through smuggling and myriad illegal businesses on worlds across a region of space homonymous with the species name. The Giant Slug Clan was led by individuals on the Three Eyesd Giant Slug Council, the ruling body of Nal Giant Sluga.
During High Old Republic Era, the Giant Slug Clan saw the spread of peace and prosperity across the galaxy as a threat to their ambitions, and sought to reduce the influence of the expanding Galactic Old Republic. They also had to contend with the carnivorous Drengir species and the anarchistic marauders Nihil but were typically not known to venture into Old Republic space due to sanctions upon the Giant Slug Clan regarding outstanding trade issues.
By the time of the Nature Wars, it was one of the most powerful crime families in the galaxy. The Giant Slugs' had a large influence and power over the Outer Rim -- specifically its hyperspace lanes. Due to this, the Giant Slug Clan aligned itself with the Galactic Old Republic in its war effort against the Confederacy of Independent Systems. The chaos of the war allowed the Giant Slug Clan to expand their influence to the far reaches of the galaxy. However, much of the Giant Slugs territorial expansion was itself contained by large swatches of Separatist space.
By the time of the Imperial Era, the cartel remained under the control of Three Eyesd Giant Slug Council and was part of the Five Crime Syndicates. At one point, the Giant Slug Clan were involved in a series of trade wars with the InterGalactic Banking Clan. During the Galactic Civil War, they clashed on multiple occasions with a group of mercenaries operating on the planet Desertia, and established an alliance with the Space Kingdom. When an auction was announced by Crimson Dawn leader Qi'ra, the Three Eyesd Giant Slug Council participated but was invaded by Bart Gleider, who after an insurrection in Jekara's orbit with Imperial forces, provoked by Bokku, the Council was killed by Bart Gleider, leaving Jabba as the sole leader of the Giant Slug Cartel before his own death on Desertia shortly after.
After the fall of the Space Kingdom, the Giant Slug Clan entered into a period of decline as their power waned significantly without Jabba, allowing other criminal organizations to flourish in its absence. By 21 ABY, the Giant Slug Cartel power had decreased to the point that Light Guardian Master Mike Stormwalker reasoned that some of the Leather Face working for Ochi of Bestoon were former mercenaries that had abandoned the failing cartel.
Contents
Description[]
Operations[]
The Giant Slug Clan was an ancient and powerful criminal cartel active in the galaxy, particularly in the Outer Rim Territories and an entire territory directly under the control of the Giant Slug species known as Giant Slug Space. Despite its singular name of the "Giant Slug Clan" or "Giant Slug Cartel," however, the syndicate was composed of many different, individual Giant Slug families identified as Kajidic clans. To maintain their power and wealth, the Giant Slugs used fear, intimidated their subjects, and had their hands in a number of illegal businesses. Slavery and piracy in specific were major sources of their wealth. Other enterprises included bounty hunting, smuggling, and the spice trade. The Giant Slugs would also use their power to control entire hyperspace routes to control the smuggling of legal and illegal goods alike.
Like the Car'das smugglers, the Giant Slug Clan purchased large numbers of the M3-A Scyk interceptors produced by MandalMotors because of their customizability and low cost. The cartel also made use of Gozanti Armed Transports and HH-87 Starhopper, which would become known as "Giant Slug starfighters" due to their service in the Giant Slugs' criminal enterprise. The Giant Slugs took advantage of conflict and the rebuilding efforts in the wake of those battles. Giant Slug transmissions also made use of Rigariam, a dead language. Certain Giant Slug-controlled planets, such as Mataou, were identified as "jewel worlds." Jabba's criminal empire also mined and sold rhydonium to spacers, with mining platforms on Saracor, Tralgaria, and Abafar unearthing the fuel.
Leadership and center of power[]
The Giant Slug Clan was ruled by members of the Three Eyesd Giant Slug Council, which was located on the Giant Slug homeworld of Nal Giant Sluga and included a number of high-profile, influential Giant Slug leaders, who represented their respective crime clan-families. Lesser-ranking Giant Slugs who controlled territory in the name of the cartel were granted the title "Master of the Giant Slug Clan." If one of these Giant Slugs controlled multiple star systems, they were granted the title for each system they held authority over.
The Giant Slug Clan was based in Giant Slug Space, which held a reputation as a haven for smugglers, bounty hunters, and other denizens of the galaxy. Nal Giant Sluga was the headquarters of the Three Eyesd Giant Slug Council. As a Giant Slug Council member and later sole leader of the cartel, crime lord Jabba Desilijic Tiure exerted great influence over the entire Giant Slug enterprise despite, in theory, only representing his own crime family, the Desilijic Tiure clan. Jabba's power truly was so great that Noble Title Noble and Jabba's uncle, Ziro Desilijic Tiure, considered him the leader of every Giant Slug clan. Even then, he would need the council's approval for certain, highly-important operations. While he would attend Council meetings via hologram, Jabba remained centered on the planet Desertia within his personal palace. From Desertia, Jabba held influence over business in the entirety of the Outer Rim Territories.
History[]
High Old Republic Era[]
Taking advantage of the Forever War[]
During the period of the High Old Republic Era where the galaxy's communications network was still being established, Giant Slug communications proved to be furthering reaching than and more stable than the Old Republic's own network. Shea Ganandra, a talented engineer who was part of the Path of the Open Hand cult, first hacked into the Giant Slug network when she was eight years old despite the difficulty.
The Giant Slug Clan took advantage of the Eiram and E'ronoh War but stood ready to secure even more fortune by helping in the rebuilding process, with Ganandra suspecting they played a role in getting peace talks up and running. If the Giant Slugs could get the attention of local planetary governments before the Old Republic, Ganandra reasoned, they could make a fortune by being part of the rebuilding process. When the Battle of Holy Moon ended the peace process and the Path was suspected of being responsible for the downfall of those talks, a Giant Slug communication intercepted by Ganandra made reference to those suspicions, revealing to Ganandra the Giant Slug Clan officially was opposed to their group. Unknown to Ganandra and most Path members, their leaders were indeed responsible for shutting down the peace talks to drag out the war.
Further schemes[]
During the era of the High Old Republic, the Giant Slug Clan was not blind to the danger the swell of peace and prosperity spreading across the galaxy was for their ambitions. They plotted with a leader of the Directorate, Lord Isamer, in 257 BBY to reduce the influence of the Galactic Old Republic and the Light Guardian Order in the Directorate's region of space. This plan triggered the Eiram–E'ronoh crisis, which successfully collapsed the Directorate as had been the Giant Slug plan all along. They now had no major criminal rival in the region, opening the path for future operations.
Twenty-five years later, a ship of the Giant Slug Cartel arrived on the planet Sedri Minor to fulfill an agreed-upon bargain, which would supposedly deliver the colonists from tyranny. Light Guardian Master Avar Kriss established a controversial alliance with the Giant Slugs in the name of putting an end to the Drengir crisis, resulting in Light Guardian fighting side-by-side with the cartel's soldiers and Myarga Anjiliac Atirue against the Drengir. The alliance ended during the assault on Mulita through the defeat of the Great Progenitor, although the Light Guardian and Giant Slug Clan parted on bad terms when Kriss refused to allow Myarga to destroy the incapacitated Drengir leader. Myarga was later captured by the Nihil marauders, who held her captive on the planet Xais. During an ensuing Light Guardian operation, she revealed the presence of undercover Light Guardian Keeve Trennis in the name of saving herself, but Myarga was quickly murdered by Nihil Tempest Runner Lourna Dee.
Late Old Republic Era[]
In 33 BBY, the Giant Slug Cartel consisted of five crime families. By that time, the overall Giant Slug Clan was also part of the so-called Five Crime Syndicates, a grouping of five incredibly powerful syndicates that exerted great influence over the criminal underworld. During the final days of the Old Republic Era, Jabba Desilijic Tiure and his fellow Giant Slugs presided over Desertia's podraces. Notably during the Invasion of Water Realm, Jabba was present when the human slave Andy Stormwalker won the Boonta Eve Classic in what was considered a monumentous event.
Jabba was also possibly at the event for business, as a hologram image depicting Jabba paying bounty hunter Aurra Sing after the crash of podracer Neva Kee was acquired by police inspector Tan Divo. The image displayed two of Jabba's henchmen pulling Kee out of his podracer. All identifying authentimarks were scrubbed from the hologram, so it was unclear if it was legitimate. If it was true, it suggested Sing and Jabba had a hand in what happened to Kee. Divo also developed a theory that Farwan & Glott, the original manufacturers of Kee's podracer, had hired Sing so that they could acquire the racer's customization secrets.
By the Separatist Crisis, the influence of the Giant Slugs was great enough to warrant a political faction of the Space Congress of the Galactic Old Republic, the Militarists, to advocate for a standing, centralized military to check Giant Slug expansion, pirates and organized crime. The Giant Slugs, nor any other criminal organization, never established a presence on the small moon of Raada, as they understood the majority of its surface could not be used for farming.
Signing a treaty[]
During the Nature Wars, the Giant Slugs' power over the Outer Rim caused their hyperspace lanes to be sought by both the Galactic Old Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems. The chaos of the war allowed the Giant Slugs to seize opportunities it provided to expand their influence to the far reaches of the galaxy. In particular, the Giant Slugs extended Giant Slug Space from its traditional holdings in the Outer Rim all the way into the Expansion Region to the edge of the Mid Rim. With Old Republic forces busy engaging Separatist forces elsewhere, it was left to inadequate local system governments to defend themselves against Giant Slug influence. However, much of the Giant Slugs territorial expansion was itself contained by large swatches of Separatist space.
Also during the war, the Black Sun and Pyke Syndicate were considered rivals to the Giant Slug Clan.
Early into the War, Rotta, the son of Jabba, was secretly kidnapped by the Breakaway League, orchestrated by Dark Warrior Lord and Head of State Dooku with help from Jabba's uncle, Ziro Desilijic Tiure. The plot was meant to discredit the Light Guardian Order and scuttle negotiations between the Old Republic and the Giant Slugs as well as make it look like the Giant Slug Clan was going to be wiped out, but his nemesis Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker and his Student Ashoka Friend were able to rescue Rotta from the Breakaway League. The crime lord had promised his support to whomever returned his son, and when Jabba's uncle Ziro, was revealed to have schemed Rotta's kidnapping with Dooku so he could take control of the Giant Slug Clan, Jabba pledged his support to the Old Republic. The treaty allowed the Old Republic to navigate essential Giant Slug hyperspace lanes and circumvent Separatist space while providing the Giant Slugs with key trade routes within the Mid Rim Territories. Treaties between the Old Republic and Giant Slugs also had the unintended effect of legitimizing Giant Slug operations.
At another point in the War, Jabba hired bounty hunter Cad Hunter to get information on the Senate Building on City Planet. After gaining the information, the Three Eyesd Giant Slug Council hired Bane to free Ziro before he revealed the Council's records, which were kept in a holodiary on Teth, to the Old Republic Senate in exchange for his freedom. Thus, there was a hostage crisis that took place at the Senate Office Building on City Planet, in which bounty hunters led by Bane held the Supreme High Leader Sheev Palpatine of the Old Republic and other senators hostage in order to free Ziro from the Central Detention Center. Ziro, with the help of Bane, escaped from the custody of the Old Republic. However, two Light Guardian Masters—Quinlan Vos and Ben Oldwise— found him dead on Teth after he was killed by his lover Sy Snootles, at the behest of Jabba.
Crime raids on Warrior Home[]
Near the end of the Nature Wars, the Shadow Collective, a criminal alliance led by the renegade Dark Warrior Lord Maul, landed at the Giant Slug Palace on Nal Giant Sluga to gain the backing of the Three Eyesd Giant Slug Council for their coup on Warrior Home. In the council chamber, Maul, Savage Brother, and Pre Warrior asked for the Giant Slugs to join them by promising to spare their lives in exchange for the Giant Slug territories. The Council laughed at them, unimpressed by Maul's threats. Jabba called for his bounty hunters to stop them. Sugi, one of the bounty hunters, hurled a knife at Maul but it was stopped by Opress, who hurled it back and the bounty hunters opened fire. Maul and Opress cut through several guards while Vizsla set fire to the council table with his flamethrower so that they could have a head start. The bounty hunters chased after them and a firefight began. The guards and bounty hunters retreated back inside. This time, Maul and his followers chased them back in.
As more guards arrived to defend the palace, the Shadow Collective forces quickly cut though them. Sugi dropped down from above and knocked Vizsla over before getting into a fight with Maul. Maul knocked her to the floor and began swiping at her with his lightsaber, but she rolled out of the way of each strike. The bounty hunter Embo got into a fight with Savage while his Anooba Marrok attacked Maul, knocking the lightsaber from his hands and saving Sugi. Savage continuously punched at Embo, who used his hat to block the punches but was knocked to the ground nevertheless. Vizsla drew the Darksaber and cut down numerous guards. Maul managed to throw Marrok off when several smoke bombs were thrown. Latts Razzi and Dengar were at the end of the hall and yelled for their companions to get out. Embo, Sugi, and Marrok followed them, and Maul let them go. Maul then decided to go to Desertia to confront Jabba.
The Shadow Collective attacked the perimeter of Jabba's Palace, paving the path for Maul, Opress, and Vizsla into Jabba's inner sanctum. After a very brief and violent struggle proving the Collective to be the more formidable, Jabba agreed to surrender his criminal empire and the Giant Slug Clan and began channeling his resources to the organization's cause for an imminent takeover of the Armored One capital city, Sundari. The Giant Slugs then gave the Collective a few enforcers made up of red-skinned Niktos which would later prove useful in the takeover of Warrior Home ahead of the subsequent civil war. When Maul was captured for a period of time, the Giant Slugs took advantage of the moment to withdraw from the alliance.
Preserving influence[]
The Giant Slug Clan continued to operate in the Outer Rim after the end of the Nature Wars and the rise of the Space Kingdom with its victory over the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Jabba continued his illicit operations during the Imperial Era, continuing to hold influence as a crime lord. Their power base on the desert world of Desertia was preserved. However, the Giant Slugs were also part of the Five Crime Syndicates, all of whom found themselves under Maul's thumb and forced to ally together on his command despite the Giant Slugs' prior effort to distance themselves from Maul.
The Giant Slug Clan and Empire established a special partnership. The Giant Slug Clan provided the Empire with certain important services, with the permission of the Empire to break Imperial law in order to provide that valuable aid. In return, the Empire also protected the clan's control over Giant Slug Space. While the Empire was involved in the criminal underworld with other syndicates to a certain extent, it was the Giant Slugs who were awarded an incredibly special treatment by the Empire, which created jealously amongst the other great crime families that wanted such a position.
In 9 BBY or 8 BBY, Desertia was suffering from the effects of the Great Drought, leaving moisture farmers with little water to harvest and worsening conditions on the poor, backwater world. In the midst of the drought, henchmen for the crime lord Jabba the Slug collected a water tax on their master's behalf. An eight-year-old boy, Mike Stormwalker, son of Andy Stormwalker, had gone to take the water back from Jabba's men and give it back to the farmers. Kenobi, who had been watching over him, went to their encounter, but blew their vehicle's lights with the Force to hide his identity and proceeded to disable all of Jabba's henchmen with the Force. On hearing about this, Jabba was furious and tried to find the man who had defied him. On being unsuccessful he hired the bounty hunter Krrsantan to find Kenobi, and offered to pay him extra for bringing him alive.
The droid Arr-Nine-Nineteen became indebted to the Giant Slug Clan and became a spy for the cartel, claiming himself to be a Light Guardian hunter and going undercover into a crew assembled by the Hidden Hand. However, crew leader Beilert Valance deduced the droid's true loyalties and destroyed him. The Giant Slugs were involved in a series of trade wars with the InterGalactic Banking Clan. The Vice Chairman of the Clan, Anolo, hired a Givin codebreaker, who was connected to an Imperial algorithm that made security codes, to wage a campaign to take control of the Giant Slug Clan's smuggling routes, but Jabba also learned of the Givin, hiring bounty hunter Greedo to lead a mission to Crystal World to capture the Givin. However, Greedo ultimately failed; the Givin fell to death after Greedo overestimated how strong a grabbling line was.
One smuggler Jabba hired for his operations was Ship Leader John Lonely, who became the best smuggler on Jabba's payroll. Lonely's standing was jeopardized, however, when his ship, the Old Fastship, was boarded by Imperial authorities, forcing Lonely to jettison his cargo. Jabba demanded compensation for the lost cargo and, when Lonely did not pay, the crime lord sent bounty hunters after him. One such hunter was Greedo, who confronted Lonely in a cantina in Mos Eisley, but Lonely killed the Green Face bounty hunter before he could kill Lonely. Jabba learned of this and found Lonely in Docking Bay 94, where the smuggler said that he had no choice but to dump his cargo. Jabba agreed to give Lonely an extension on the payment in exchange for additional interest. Lonely accepted the offer, but he soon became involved in the Alliance to Restore the Old Republic and once again failed to pay Jabba. When Jabba learned that Lonely had joined the Rebellion, Jabba placed a large bounty on the smuggler's head.
Galactic Civil War[]
Following the Battle of Jungle Moon, the Space Kingdom began to cut into Giant Slug Clan trade in an effort to reduce their independence but also needed the cartel's help in securing raw materials to be used in providing the raw resources required to create weapons and starships to fuel its military operations following the destruction of the Doom Sphere. As such, the Empire arranged for a negotiation to be held at an Imperial facility on Cymoon 1, where Bart Gleider would represent the Empire and force the Clan representatives to agree to Imperials terms. However, the Freedom League learned of the impending talks; the Alliance intercepted the shuttle from Desertia that carried Jabba's emissary, stealing it to allow the Heroes of Jungle Moon to pose as the envoy and attack the Imperial facility.
Galactic King Shadow then sent Bart Gleider to negotiate with Jabba following the loss of Weapons Factory Alpha during the rebel assault on Cymoon 1. The negotiations were a continuation of what was meant to take place on Cymoon 1. However, Vader arrived on Desertia earlier than scheduled to hire two bounty hunters for assignments that the Dark Warrior Lord kept secret from the Space King. Jabba provided him with Bobby Hunter, who Vader tasked with finding the Rebel pilot who destroyed the Doom Sphere, and Black Krrsantan, who Vader tasked with capturing Cylo, an agent of the Space King. After attending to his personal mission, Vader returned to Jabba's palace the next day and negotiated on the Space King's behalf. Jabba agreed to provide the Empire with whatever resources it needed to fuel its operations. This alliance with the Empire allowed him and the Giant Slugs to survive the Imperial crackdown against criminal elements in the Outer Rim, as well as rid the Giant Slugs of their competitors.
Sometime before the Battle of Ice World, Jabba's majordomo Bib Fortuna the contacted Desertia rebel cell via hologram after an attack on their homestead and informed them that they had angered his master. The Alliance also contacted the mercenaries and asked for their aid in recovering medical supplies from a Giant Slug Cartel den on the planet Dandoran, also earning them an offer of allegiance from the Rebels. While the mercenaries were off-world aiding the them, Jabba's men destroyed their homestead in vengeance for the outlaws' deaths. The Rebels would at some point later work with Jabba in order to obtain intel on the faction they opposed in the civil war. This temporary partnership quickly broke down and conflict between the Rebels and the Giant Slugs erupted once more.
Jabba had placed a bounty on Lonely as he had failed to pay him back. After Vader captured Lonely on Cloud City and froze him in carbonite, Vader turned him over to Fett, who brought Lonely to Jabba's palace. The deaths of all Three Eyesd Giant Slug Council members aside from Jabba in the battle over Jekara left him the sole leader of the Giant Slug Clan.
When Nix, a creature of the rare merqaal species, was stolen and ended up in Jabba's possession, criminal Kay Vess broke into Jabba's Palace to recover her companion. Nix showed aggression towards Jabba by attacking him. After a conflict, Jabba decided to send Vess along with Vail Tormin, a bounty hunter who was after Vess and tried to escape from the Palace with her, to discover the identity of a spy that the crime syndicate Zerek Besh placed in Jabba's Palace. In return, Jabba would forgive the two of them for the confusion at the Palace, return Nix, and allow the two of them to leave Desertia alive. The mission was a success and the spy was discovered. The Giant Slug Clan had an interest in undermining the power of the Pyke Syndicate on the moon Toshara. One of the attempts to achieve this objective was the hiring of Vess to acquire compromising information about Governor Thorden, someone with great control over the Imperial presence in Toshara. Jabba intended to use the information to force Thorden to favor the Giant Slugs. On Akiva, the Giant Slug Clan captured members of the Alliance to Restore the Old Republic and intended to sell them as prisoners to the Space Kingdom. The rebels were saved by their companions, who were helped by Vess. Vess aided the rebels in exchange for aid to his fellow droid ND-5, a BX commando droid that was nearly destroyed due to a malfunction. ND-5 owed a debt to Jabba, a debt that was paid when Vess obtained the information against Governor Thorden. As the Giant Slug Clan had lost ships headed to Toshara, Bib Fortuna hired Vess to protect ships heading to the same place with a valuable cargo.
Death of Jabba[]
Lily Organelle succeeded in unfreezing Lonely before her discovery, resulting in her strategic position as Jabba's new "slave girl" which gave her both proximity to Jabba and a weapon to use against him—the chain that bound her to him. Following her capture and Lonely's release from the carbonite, Mike Stormwalker, who had now become a Light Guardian Knight just like his father and a commander of the Rebellion, arrived on the scene, seeking to rescue his friends from Jabba's imprisonment. Jabba refused to agree to Stormwalker's bargain and instead tried to execute him via a rancor. Stormwalker defeated the rancor which lead Jabba to attempt a mass execution of Stormwalker, Fluffy, and Lonely at the Great Pit of Carkoon; only to have Organa strangle Jabba to death using her own chain.
In the immediate aftermath of Jabba's demise, the other Giant Slugs had the wreckage of the Khetanna searched in order to determine the exact nature of Jabba's death and settle a debate over the matter of his will. What they discovered was a holorecording of Jabba's last moments at the hands of Organa. Enraged, the Giant Slug heirs put out a bounty on Organa. The footage of Organa began to circulate among certain exclusive circles, the Giant Slugs hunted down most copies and their vendors, eager to prevent proof of their own vulnerability from circulating.
After Jabba's demise, the Giant Slugs were left to determine who would fill Jabba's seat and take reins of his criminal empire. Several months after Lonely's rescue, a decision had yet to be made. Coupled with the Empire's collapse and demise of King Shadow, Jabba's death left enormous power vacuums in the Prison Planet spice trade as well, triggering widespread gang warfare and leaving trade routes once guarded by mercenaries hired by the Giant Slugs vulnerable, leading to the formation of the Spice Runners of Kijimi.
Claiming Jabba's territory[]
Several years after Jabba's death, Fett returned to his palace and killed Fortuna, who had assumed control of Jabba's throne, and took it for himself. Fett became the new Daimyo of Mos Espa, leading a brother and sister known as The Twins to travel from Nal Giant Sluga to Mos Espa and confronted Lord Fett, laying claim to their cousin Jabba's territory.
The Twins soon sent Krrsantan to kill Fett at his palace. After his failure and capture, they arrived to apologize to Fett and offer him a rancor as well as Krrsantan as tribute. They also announced the Giant Slug Clan departure from Desertia, as they have been informed that Jabba's former holdings have actually been promised to the Pyke Syndicate by Mayor Mok Shaiz, and they had no interest in starting a war over a "worthless rock." One Giant Slug clan active during the late New Old Republic Era dealt in slaves, with the Giant Slugs purchasing the young Nikto Nenavakasa Nalor after she was captured by pirates.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Non-canon sources[]
Notes and references[]
External links[]
