Mike Stormwalker, a Force-sensitive human male, was a legendary Light Guardian Master who fought in the Galactic Civil War during the reign of the Space Kingdom. Along with his companions, Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle and Army Leader John Lonely, Stormwalker served as a revolutionary on the side of the Alliance to Restore the Old Republic—an organization committed to the downfall of the Space Kingdom and the restoration of democracy. Following the war, Stormwalker became a living legend, and was remembered as one of the greatest Light Guardian in galactic history.
The son of Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker and Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler, Mike Stormwalker was born along with his twin sister, Leia, in 19 BBY. As a result of Amidala's death and Anakin's fall to the dark side of the Force, the Stormwalker children were separated and sent into hiding, with Leia adopted by the royal family of Peace Star while Mike was raised by his relatives on Desertia. Longing for a life of adventure and purpose, Stormwalker joined the Rebellion and began learning the ways of the Force under the guidance of Light Guardian Master Ben Oldwise, whose first apprentice was Mike's own father. During the Battle of Jungle Moon in 0 BBY, Stormwalker saved the Alliance from annihilation by destroying the Empire's planet-killing superweapon, the Doom Sphere. He continued his training in the years that followed, determined to become a Light Guardian Knight like his father before him, and found a new mentor in Three Eyesd Master Guru. After his master's death, Stormwalker participated in the Battle of Forest Moon in 4 ABY, during which he confronted the Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider, whom he learned was in fact his father, Andy Stormwalker. With Mike's help, Anakin returned to the light side of the Force by killing the Space King and Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior Dark Space King at the cost of his own life, fulfilling his destiny as the Chosen One. Following the Battle of Forest Moon, Stormwalker trained his sister as a first Light Guardian apprentice on Ajan Kloss, but Leia ended her training after the birth of her son and seeing his death as a result of finishing her knighthood.
With the Dark Warrior's destruction and the subsequent capitulation of the Empire, Stormwalker traveled across the galaxy during New Old Republic Era, searching for knowledge that would aid him in rebuilding the Light Guardian Order. In 9 ABY, Stormwalker rescued Grogu, a Armored One Force-sensitive child that belonged to the same species as Guru, from Region Boss Gideon's forces, and after temporarily taking the child as an apprentice on Ossus. During the training, Stormwalker was visited by Anakin's former padawan, Ashoka Friend, where they discussed Grogu and how Stormwalker sensed that the child's heart was not in relearning the Light Guardian path. After Grogu's caregiver, Din Djarin, visited the planet bearing a gift for Grogu, Stormwalker offered him with a choice, accept the gift and return to the Armored One, or take Guru's lightsaber and continue with his Light Guardian training. Grogu chose to return to Djarin, while Stormwalker bid Tano farewell as she departed for ways unknown.
Stormwalker later took his sister's son, Ren Bolo, by 15 ABY who inherited the bloodline in the Force and had the potential for limitless power, as an apprentice. Both traveled to Elphrona to study lost Light Guardian lore, where the trio encountered the Knights of Ren, while Lonely began to be groomed by Pale Leader, a humanoid being powerful in the Force. In 21 ABY, Stormwalker started feeling an increasing darkness in the Force and having dark visions that frequently came to him in meditation and undertook a quest to find the hidden world of Exegol. Stormwalker journeyed to Tython where upon meditating, he saw a vision of Exegol and faced nine wraiths when the force ghost of Andy Stormwalker appeared next to him. Following this, Stormwalker was able to defeat Kiza and the spirit of Exim Panshard but was ultimately unable to locate Exegol after failing to track down an assassin called Ochi.
In 28 ABY, Stormwalker, glimpsing the darkness in Lonely, briefly contemplated killing him, causing Lonely to fall to the dark side. The destruction of his temple and the deaths of all his students convinced a haunted and regretful Stormwalker that the time had come for the Light Guardian to end. Stormwalker therefore sought exile on the distant world of Ahch-To, having elected to live out his remaining days as a hermit despite the galaxy's pleas for help during the rise of the New Empire. His solitude was interrupted in 34 ABY, shortly after the fall of the New Old Republic, resulting in a chain of events that led Stormwalker to play one last, momentous role in the conflict between light and darkness. Although he passed away into the Force, his legend would spread throughout the galaxy, rekindling a spark of hope in the enemies of the New Empire. Before his death, Stormwalker declared that the Light Guardian Order would not die with him, having trained a final apprentice: the Scrapyard scavenger known as Ray of Light.
A year later, Stormwalker's spirit communed with Ray of Light during the final days of the war. The Light Guardian apprentice had exiled herself to Ahch-To, following in Stormwalker's example. However, he urged Ray of Light to confront her grandfather, the resurrected Dark Space King. Believing he had been wrong, Stormwalker told Ray of Light that a Light Guardian's destiny was to confront fear. Following the Space King's destruction, the spirits of Stormwalker and his sister watched over Ray of Light as she buried their lightsabers in Stormwalker's childhood home on Desertia and adopted the Stormwalker name as her own, honoring their legacy and recognizing herself as a member of her chosen family.
Contents
Biography
Pre-birth
During the Nature Wars, Light Guardian Master Guru set out on a journey to discover the secrets of immortality. His journey took him to Moraband, the ancient Dark Warrior homeworld, where he faced visions of the future. At the end of his journey, the Force Priestess, Serenity, who guided his journey told him that there was another Stormwalker, and Guru heard his voice from the future say so as well. These events alluded to the birth and destiny of Mike Stormwalker, as well as his twin sister Leia.
Early life
Birth
Mike Stormwalker was born in 19 BBY on the asteroid field of Asteroid Base two days after the proclamation of the Space Kingdom. He and his twin sister, Leia, who was born minutes after him, were the children of Galactic Old Republic Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler, who died shortly after the births, and Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker, who had recently fallen to the dark side of the Force. To protect the children from the Empire and their father, the now-Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider, Ben Oldwise personally sent the infant Mike to be raised by Anakin's stepbrother, Owen Lars and his wife, Beru on the planet Desertia, while Planet Speaker Bail Organa agreed to adopt Leia together with his wife, the queen of Peace Star. Kenobi boarded the late Army Leader Steel's starfighter, the Soulless One, once more flew to the planet Nar Shaddaa and sold it there to transport Mike Stormwalker to Desertia.
First years on the farm
Mike Stormwalker spent his youth on the Lars' moisture farm, where his uncle unsuccessfully tried to discourage his adventurous tendencies, telling him that his father had been "a navigator on a spice freighter" during the Nature Wars. His aunt, Beru, would read him storybooks; one day, when his uncle had business in Mos Eisley, she took Stormwalker to Anchorhead to use the HoloNet connections there and show him images of forests, rivers, and oceans.
By the age of three in 16 BBY, Stormwalker had found pleasure playing with a model spaceship built especially for him. He did not know that Kenobi had actually built it and that Kenobi had been leaving several of them at his grandmother, Shmi's sandblasted tombstone for his aunt to find. One morning, as Stormwalker played with his toy, a group of marauders attacked the farm. Ben Oldwise, who had been watching him from afar, sprang into action, cutting down several Pig Guards before coming to the realization that he was badly outnumbered. Just as he was about to be dealt a possibly killing blow by one of the gang, Stormwalker threw the toy starfighter he had been playing with, managing to distract the Pig Guard long enough for Kenobi to separate his feet from his ankles. The battle then raged further, slowly turning in the favor of the defenders which included Owen Lars, who managed to gun down several of the invaders with a blaster. Mike cried out after noticing that one of the marauders, a Red Devil, had snuck up behind Lars, ready to knock him out. Kenobi then threw his lightsaber cutting the last marauder in half. As Stormwalker cheered, Lars threw a punch which knocked Kenobi to the ground. Lars then ushered Stormwalker back before chastising Kenobi for his involvement, pointing out the fact that Stormwalker's brief show of bravery had potential ramifications for the boy's future.
Vader's vision
Shortly after the Battle of Vortress Fader, Bart Gleider accessed a portal to the dark side created by Dark One Momin in an attempt to revive Pamela Planet Ruler. He eventually found an apparition of Amidala standing on a balcony, who rejected his pleas and threw itself off the ledge and was incinerated by lightning. Just after this, Vader saw a blue light in the distance, out of which emerged an apparition of an adult Mike Stormwalker, who blasted him back to reality.
Brushes with Kenobi
As Stormwalker got older, Owen started homeschooling him so he could learn the family trade. Despite this, he still kept up with Desertia's podracing, swoop racing, and sky racing culture through comms stations and local chatter. He dreamed of what it would be like to one day be the pilot of a ship.
In 9 BBY, Kenobi looked in on Stormwalker via macrobinoculars around the same time that the Empire's Truth Seekers came to Desertia looking for the Light Guardian Nari. Stormwalker was tasked with a chore by Lars but instead disappeared causing Lars and Beru to wonder where he went. In reality, he had gone to the roof of one of the homestead wearing a mask and pretending he was piloting a space vehicle.
The next evening, Kenobi visited the Lars homestead and left a toy model of a T-16 skyhopper for Stormwalker. Lars found the toy and returned it to Kenobi the next day telling him to stay away from Stormwalker and that they would not accept gifts from Kenobi. Kenobi tried to explain to Lars that there was more to life than just his farm and that there was a whole galaxy out there for Stormwalker to explore. Despite being concerned for Stormwalker, Lars accused Kenobi of only caring about his well-being only if he was showing signs of force-sensitivity. Lars refused once again to let Kenobi train Stormwalker.
While Kenobi was off-world, having been sent by Bail Organa to protect Leia, Kenobi received a transmission from Bail, who was worried that Kenobi had not communicated with him. Bail informed him that if Vader had learned of Stormwalker and Leia's existence, or if he did not hear back from Kenobi, he would go to Desertia to help Lars with Stormwalker. After an Imperial attack on Jabiim, while Stormwalker was sleeping at the Lars homestead, the holoprojector disk containing Bail's message was found by former Truth Seeker Reva Sevander who learned from it that Vader's son was on Desertia in the care of someone named Owen, who she had met. As she started to pursue Stormwalker, Kenobi sensed something was wrong in the Force.
Mike did some work on Owen's speeder and accidentally broke it, so he was marched into a repair shop with Owen to have it fixed. However, the former Truth Seeker Reva Sevander, blinded by rage and focusing that anger on the boy, traveled to Desertia on the hope that killing Mike would bring her justice.
Warned of Sevander's coming attack, Owen and Beru hid Mike inside their house and claimed that it was the Tuskens who were coming, but Sevander ultimately fought past the aunt and uncle. With Sevander in pursuit, Mike fled into the desert but was knocked out by a fall. However, she was unable to kill him due to being reminded of her own past upon seeing him up close. With Sevander returning the boy to Owen, Beru, and the suddenly-back Kenobi, who had drawn on the hope of what Mike and Leia were capable of to triumph over Vader on a barren moon before returning upon sensing that he was in danger, Mike was ushered back to the homestead by Owen and Beru. The following day, Kenobi stopped by to meet with Owen, who allowed Kenobi to finally meet the young Stormwalker.
Taking on Jabba's thugs
During the Great Drought, henchmen for the crime lord Jabba the Slug collected a "water tax" on their master's behalf. Despite the damage it caused moisture farmers, Stormwalker naïvely stood up to the thugs at night, trying to take back the water they had stolen from the farmers. Kenobi, who sensed the danger his protégé was in, blew their vehicle's lights with the Force to hide his identity, and proceeded to disable all of Jabba's henchmen. One of them became startled and pushed Stormwalker to the ground, causing him to hit his head and pass out. Once Kenobi handled the thugs, he carried Stormwalker to the Lars' homestead where he was found asleep, unaware of his savior's identity, by his aunt in the morning.
Saving Uncle Owen
A year after the Great Drought, life carried on for Stormwalker on Desertia. Alongside Biggs Darklighter and his other friends, Stormwalker flew his T-16 skyhopper for a joyride through Beggar's Canyon. Despite some daring moves, Stormwalker ended up crashing the vehicle, leading to his uncle Owen grounding him. Stormwalker offered to pay for the damage by flying in a race at nearby Anchorhead, but Lars stood his ground. Unbeknownst to both of them, Ben Oldwise used Jawas to leave Stormwalker some skyhopper parts. An angry Owen returned the parts to Kenobi and told him to leave the family alone.
Some time after grounding Stormwalker from flying his skyhopper, Lars attempted to rebuild his relationship with his nephew by looking to help him fix it. However, before he could, he was captured by the Hairy Friend bounty hunter Krrsantan and tortured. Meanwhile, Stormwalker was running away from home for not the first time. However, he sensed something was wrong and rushed to his homestead. When he arrived, he found many droids destroyed and his aunt Beru rattled, telling him of the attack. She ordered her nephew to lock himself in the homestead's maintenance bay, where he found his disabled skyhopper. He proceeded to fix it and make his way to Krrsantan and Owen. As he flew there, the Hairy Friend was engaged by Ben Oldwise. During this battle, Owen was thrown off a cliff. Before he could hit the bottom, Stormwalker, in his skyhopper, managed to catch him and escape. Meanwhile, Kenobi defeated Krrsantan. Afterwards, Stormwalker was allowed to fly his skyhopper once again.
Other adventures
Eventually, Stormwalker became an adventure-seeking youth who demonstrated his father's natural piloting skills, as well as a strong desire to leave Desertia. At one point in his boyhood, Stormwalker was climbing in a canyon, but, when he grabbed the top, the rock broke off. Stormwalker fell into a cave, where he was seen by a group of womp rats and a krayt dragon, although he managed to escape the creatures. When Stormwalker was 12 years old in 7 BBY, he and his friend, Windy went off on their own through the Desertia desert and wandered away from the moisture farms riding a dewback. The two encountered a sandstorm during their time outside and both lost consciousness. A krayt dragon was nearby when Stormwalker woke up, but they were saved by Kenobi, meeting him once more after two years. Stormwalker asked him who he was, and Kenobi revealed that his name was Ben Kenobi and an old friend of his father. Soon after, Stormwalker exhausted and with Windy, he returned safely to their homes, carried on a dewback.
As more of Stormwalker's friends left the planet to follow their dreams, he became increasingly frustrated that his uncle would not allow him to do the same, claiming that he still needed help with the farm. In truth, Owen was trying to prevent Stormwalker from following in his father's footsteps. In 2 BBY Stormwalker was helping at his foster parent's moisture farm when Beru called him inside. As Stormwalker ran back to the house, he was watched in the distance by Ben Oldwise, who was riding a dewback. Kenobi had just defeated and killed the former Dark Warrior apprentice Maul, who had a vendetta against Kenobi after being bisected at the torso during the Invasion of Water Realm thirty years earlier. In his final moments, Maul asked Kenobi if he was guarding Stormwalker. Kenobi affirmed that he believed Mike was the Chosen One before Maul passed away.
When not helping his uncle, Stormwalker would occasionally go bulls-eye womp rats, or go racing through the dangerous Beggar's Canyon in his T-16 skyhopper by the age of thirteen. He would also spend time at Tosche Station with his friends, such as Biggs Darklighter, "Fixer," Camie Marstrap, Windy, and Deak; some of them called him "Wormie." However, Mike spent most of his time working and always had to be helpful.
Joining the Rebellion
Leaving Desertia
In 0 BBY, Stormwalker was working on the family farm by repairing moisture vaporators with one of their WED Treadwell repair droid when he spotted a battle over Desertia; unknown to the young man, it was the Rebel starship Tantive IV being chased by the Imperial I-class Space Dominator Devastator. Heading to Tosche Station, Stormwalker swapped stories with his friends, among them a visiting and recently-graduated Darklighter, who was reluctant to believe Stormwalker's claims about a battle upon looking up with Stormwalker's macrobinoculars and merely seeing the two craft sitting still in space. Nonetheless, Stormwalker was then eager to tell his friend of his recent exploits aboard his skyhopper in Beggar's Canyon, which Darklighter was amused by. After warning his friend not to crash the ship, he leaned close to Stormwalker to tell his old friend a great secret: he intended to defect from the Empire to join the Freedom League Starfighter Corps.
Promising to keep an eye out for him, Darklighter and Stormwalker then parted ways once again with the hope that they could reunite one day. A short time later, the purchase of two droids—Beep-Boop and Gold Talker—by Stormwalker's step-uncle changed the young farm boy's life forever. Obtaining the droids from a band of Jawas to help with various tasks around the homestead, neither of them were aware that the droids had narrowly escaped from the battle Stormwalker had glimpsed, and that Beep-Boop contained a set of plans for the Empire's dreaded Doom Sphere superweapon. While cleaning the two new droids back at the homestead, Stormwalker learned that they had been involved with the Freedom League, and witnessed part of a desperate message from Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle requesting help from someone named "Ben Oldwise," whom Beep-Boop claimed that he once belonged to.
Chasing after Beep-Boop when the droid ran off to find Kenobi, Stormwalker soon found himself in the company of Kenobi after being attacked by a group of Sand People out in the Jundland Wastes. After traveling back to the Light Guardian's home, Kenobi soon revealed to Stormwalker that he had once been a Light Guardian Knight who served in the Nature Wars with Stormwalker's father. He went on to inform Stormwalker that his father was not a spice freighter navigator like his uncle had always told him, but a Light Guardian Knight struck down by Bart Gleider. Stormwalker was also given his father's lightsaber by Kenobi, allowing the blade to be ignited for the first time in years. After he showed Daughter Ruler Leia's message in its entirety to Kenobi, the old Light Guardian Master requested Stormwalker's help to see the mission through, and offered to show him the ways of the Force. Stormwalker initially refused to get involved, as he believed his duties at home were more important, but he offered to take Kenobi to Anchorhead.
On their way to Anchorhead, Stormwalker and Kenobi came upon a group of slaughtered Jawas—the same ones who sold the droids to his uncle. Stormwalker deduced from learning that Imperial stormtroopers were responsible that they might have looked into the sales records of the droids, and rushed home in the hopes of saving his step-aunt and step-uncle. Upon returning home, Stormwalker discovered that he was too late: his step-aunt and step-uncle had been murdered by the Empire. With the people who raised him dead, he decided to accompany Kenobi to Peace Star to deliver the plans back to the Alliance and learn the ways of the Light Guardian.
Light Guardian training
On their way to Mos Eisley, Kenobi began training him and gave Stormwalker his first lesson, during which he learned the basics of Light Guardian meditation. They would later reach Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina, where Kenobi believed that they could find a pilot that could get them to Peace Star. Inside the cantina, Stormwalker nearly had a fatal run-in with the criminals Ponda Baba and Dr. Evazan, but trouble was avoided when Kenobi sliced off Baba's arm with his lightsaber in defense of Stormwalker.
The two were eventually able to find a pilot that could take them to Peace Star in the form of John Lonely, a Shipyard Worldn smuggler, and his co-pilot Fluffy. Lonely's initial rate was ten thousand credits all paid in advance, which Stormwalker thought was too expensive. Ultimately, they were able to compromise when Kenobi offered to pay two thousand credits up front and an additional fifteen thousand when they got to Peace Star, for a total of seventeen thousand credits, which convinced Lonely to take them, with Stormwalker selling his speeder to Wioslea to pay for the two thousand up front. As they left the cantina, they were also cornered by a stormtrooper, but Kenobi took out the trooper with the Force by throwing large pieces of metal. With it clear that stormtroopers were all around the city, the two moved to quickly depart Mos Eisley.
After escaping stormtroopers on Lonely's ship, the Old Fastship, Kenobi began Stormwalker's instruction in the ways of the Force, using a training remote to instruct him in basic lightsaber combat, much to the derision of Lonely, who dismissed it as a "hokey religion." Wearing a helmet that completely covered his eyes for part of the lesson, Kenobi encouraged him to reach out with the Force to combat the remote. Despite his vision being totally impaired, Stormwalker was able to successfully deflect a pair of blaster bolts from the remote, claiming that he could "almost see" the remote through the Force.
Doom Sphere rescue
The lesson, however, was soon interrupted by their arrival in the Peace Star system and their discovery of the planet's destruction. They then spotted a patrolling TIE fighter and, upon following it, found that it was approaching what appeared to be a small moon, which turned out to be the Doom Sphere. Caught by the Doom Sphere's tractor beam, they were brought aboard the massive space station.
Once on board, Mike and John knocked two stormtroopers out and stole their armor, whereas Kenobi set out to deactivate the tractor beam. However, when Beep-Boop discovered that Lily Organelle was being held captive on the station, Stormwalker insisted on rescuing her. Though Lonely was reluctant to go marching into the detention block, Stormwalker convinced him to go along with the rescue by claiming that he would get a significant reward for doing so.
Still using their stormtrooper guises, Stormwalker and Lonely convinced Fluffy to pose as a prisoner and escorted him to Detention Block AA-23 (where Organa was being held.) They were able to rescue Organa, but their cover was blown and they had to jump into the garbage compactor in order to escape the pursuing Imperial forces. After Mike thrashed and struggled against the hold of the dianoga Omi, the group escaped the compactor and headed back to the Old Fastship, but not before avoiding more troopers. Though Stormwalker and Organa were separated from Lonely and Fluffy, they were able to reunite with their companions, and the droids, in the hangar bay.
Eventually, the group escaped the Doom Sphere, but only after Kenobi sacrificed himself in a duel with Bart Gleider. Angry and confused, Organa offered some comfort for his grief. Despite the fact that they had escaped from the Doom Sphere, a pursing TIE fighter patrol was on the verge of catching up to them, so at Lonely's request, Stormwalker manned one of the Old Fastship's quad laser cannons to eliminate the enemy fighters, with Stormwalker managing to destroy two of them. Once the patrol was eliminated, they traveled to the hidden rebel base on Jungle Moon 4, unaware that the Doom Sphere was tracking them.
Battle of Jungle Moon
Upon their arrival at the Jungle Moon base, they met with Unit Leader Willard and Organa introduced him to Stormwalker so that he could join the Freedom League as a pilot. Stormwalker then separated and met Wedge Flyer, who oversaw his flight simulation test. Lasting no more than 30 seconds, the more experienced pilot advised Stormwalker to listen to his explanations, and encouraged him not to give up. In his second try, Stormwalker used what he had learned from Antilles, and managed to surpass the highest score, that of Antilles', prompting Willard to accept him without objection. He joined Red Group with the designation of Red Five, which had previously belonged to a cadet named Pedrin Gaul, who had perished during the Battle of Beach Fortress several days earlier.
After the briefing for their plan of attack against the incoming Doom Sphere, Stormwalker prepared himself for the attack, when he saw Lonely loading his payment onto the Falcon for rescuing Organa and prepared to leave the group. Stormwalker attempted to persuade him to stay and help them against the Empire, but Lonely refused, claiming that the attack on the Doom Sphere was suicide rather than bravery, deeply disappointing him. After bidding farewell to Organa as well, Stormwalker was about to board his T-65B Cross Fighter starfighter, when he encountered his old friend, Biggs Darklighter, the two about to be flying as wingmen in the upcoming battle. In a brief conversation, Darklighter promised Mike that the two would catch up on each other's stories when they got back. Stormwalker was also approached by Garven Dreis, the commander of Red Squadron, who asked him if he was sure he could handle the Cross Fighter, to which Darklighter vouched for his friend, calling him the "best bush pilot in the Outer Rim Territories." Stormwalker was assigned command of fourth flight for the battle.
As the Battle of Jungle Moon got underway and Stormwalker and his fellow squadmates launched into space, Stormwalker was guided by the spirit of Ben Oldwise. He participated in Red Squadron's initial assault on the Doom Sphere's outer defenses, primarily focusing on disabling the station's numerous turbolaser batteries and fighting off TIE fighters when they were deployed against the Rebel fighters. He also helped to provide cover for Gold Squadron when they made the first attack run on the meridian trench, as well as Unit Leader Dreis when he made his attack run. Eventually, Bart Gleider himself joined the fray in a TIE Advanced x1 and succeeded in thwarting the first two attack runs. Just before he was shot down by the Dark Warrior Lord, Unit Leader Dreis instructed Stormwalker to lead a third and final run on the trench with Darklighter and Antilles.
Stormwalker took charge of the last attempt on the thermal exhaust port as instructed, but Vader and his two escort fighters soon caught up to them. Antilles was forced to withdraw after his starfighter suffered damage, and Darklighter was eventually shot down as well. Unable to grieve for his fallen friend, Stormwalker tried to focus on his target. He was once again contacted by the spirit to Kenobi, who urged him to let the Force guide him. This prompted Stormwalker to disable his starfighter's targeting computer, much to the confusion of the Rebel leaders continuing to monitor the battle from the surface of Jungle Moon 4.
Just as Stormwalker reached the end of the trench, it appeared as though Vader would shoot him down like he had the other pilots, but before he could, John Lonely and Fluffy showed up in the Old Fastship, destroying Vader's two escorts and causing Vader's TIE Advanced to spiral out of control away from the trench. At Lonely's urging, Stormwalker took a single shot and fired two proton torpedos, using the Force to guide them to their target, which resulted in the destruction of the Doom Sphere. For this action he, Fluffy, and John Lonely were awarded the Medal of Bravery the next morning.
Just as the ceremony ended, Stormwalker told Organa to allow herself some time to grieve for the loss of her family and homeworld. Afterwards, Army Leader Jan Dodonna sent him and Antilles, the only other survivor of Red Group, in their Cross Fighters to retrieve the wayward princess and bring her to the Great Temple. Her shuttle's pilot, Evaan Verlaine, however, managed to outsmart them and make the jump to hyperspace with course to Water Realm, with Beep-Boop accompanying the two women. They would later reunite after she had successfully accomplished her mission. Soon after, Stormwalker became an officer in the Alliance and was given the rank of Lieutenant and was regularly assigned numerous independent missions.
Hero of Jungle Moon
Balnab
Despite his assistance in the fight, Lonely largely divested himself from the Alliance after the Battle of Jungle Moon. When Stormwalker heard that Lonely had camped out on Balnab, he and some members of the Rebellion briefly went there to meet him. Stormwalker approached Lonely and Fluffy on the Millenium Falcon, the latter roughing him up when he insulted the ship. Despite Lonely's prodding and boasting of getting his reward money, Stormwalker insisted that he was not running away from Rebel life and had just come to see him. He asked Lonely for a favor to deliver a few crates to the Rebellion's surveillance outpost on Calumdarian. Lonely insisted that he was not a part of the Rebellion and did not want to do it, saying he had already done a mission for Organa and saved Stormwalker's life at Jungle Moon. Stormwalker insisted that it was serious and that lives were at stake as Rebel pilots started to bring the crates aboard the ship. Stormwalker pointed out that Lonely was the best smugger they had. While Lonely tried to insist that they did not have him because he was not a part of the Rebellion, Stormwalker thanked the pilots for bringing the crates on board as he left. Lonely ended up successfully completing the mission.
Rion
Soon after the Battle of Jungle Moon, in 0 ABY, Stormwalker, Lonely, and Fluffy were sent on a mission by Daughter Ruler Organa to negotiate supplies from the planet Rion. Organa put Stormwalker in charge, which surprised and peeved Lonely. Once arrived on the planet, Lonely noticed that a big price could have been won by winning a swoop race. Stormwalker, however, thought that it was better to fulfill the mission without being distracted and risking to loose money.
Lonely decided to participate anyway and, unbeknownst to his friend, took some money with which they should have bought supplies and bought a swoop. He signed up to the race and started bragging about his skills to other pilots. Two pilots, however, understood that Lonely had a big bounty on his head and decided to sabotage the race and hand over the rebel soldier to the Empire. In the meanwhile, Stormwalker ended the negotiations with Razian, an alien that should have provided the supplies to the Freedom League, but noticed that half the credits were missing. He understood that Lonely took part to the race, and went to the stadium in which Lonely was racing. In the stands he heard two criminals talking about how they would knock Lonely out: Stormwalker and Fluffy put the two criminals out of action, and Stormwalker went to help Lonely who was being targeted by his opponents who agreed to eliminate him. Lonely, helped by his friend, was able to win the race, and they could eventually pay Razian for the supplies.
The Desert Jewel
In an errand for Sea Leader Gial Ackbar, Stormwalker was dispatched to the planet Rodia in order to open a secret weapon supply line for the Alliance. He was accompanied by Artoo and a pilot named Nakari Kelen, and they flew her ship, the Desert Jewel. During their mission together, they helped a Kupohan ship—which, unknown to them at the time, carried vital intelligence on a Givin cryptographer named Drusil Bephorin—near Llanic. They then continued their journey to Rodia. Stormwalker was greeted by Laneet Chekkoo, who guided him to Toopil. During business with Taneetch Soonta, the Green Face told Stormwalker about the Light Guardian, including a story about Anakin during the Nature Wars. From her, Stormwalker received her uncle's lightsaber.
After killing a ghest and getting some treatment for his wounds, Stormwalker focused on analyzing Huulik's lightsaber and trying to learn telekinesis, but a planetwide alert for the Desert Jewel forced him to leave Rodia immediately and meet up with Ackbar and Organa on the Promise. The two assigned him to a mission to rescue Bephorin on Denon, but the need for upgrades for the Jewel prompted him to go on another mission to Fex with Kelen before that. Warned by Organa not to blindly trust Kelen, Stormwalker set off for Pasher with Kelen and Artoo to receive intel from her father about their destination and the necessary equipment to survive its atmosphere. The two then headed towards Fex. Once they successfully retrieved the Harvester and were rewarded for it, Stormwalker and Kelen traveled to Rodia to fix the Desert Jewel.
Following the ship's modifications, the two Rebels returned to the Promise to receive more intel on the Denon mission from Organa and Ackbar, only to depart for the planet as soon as possible, meet with their contact Sakhet, and prepare Bephorin's liberation. Once in motion, their plan allowed them to escape from Imperial Security Bureau agents, and Denon altogether, with the Givin cryptographer onboard the Jewel. Despite several hiccups along the way, including an extended stop on Kupoh, they reached Omereth. There, however, the Jewel was intercepted by bounty hunters and a confrontation ensued between the Rebels and their pursuers. Despite the formers' victory, Kelen was killed by one of the bounty hunters—saddening Stormwalker, who had come to develop feelings for her. After allowing himself some time to grieve for those he had lost during the war, Stormwalker completed his mission by reuniting Bephorin with her family and meeting with Major Bren Derlin. Afterwards, Stormwalker returned Kelen's body to her father, after reflecting on the fact that he had learned how to move objects with the Force thanks to her support.
Devaron
After numerous missions alongside Antilles and earning each other's complete trust, Stormwalker assisted on a mission for Red Squadron above Giju: he helped protect a transport carrying underground rebel leaders being evacuated from the planet, along with Antilles and Unit Leader Arhul Narra. Once the package was clear, they followed the scatter protocol, and Stormwalker and Beep-Boop set course to Devaron when he had a vision about future events on that same planet. He soon met with Antilles and Narra, who sent him, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop on a mission for High Leader Mon Mothma.
After refueling the ship, the trio departed for Whiforla II and jumped out of hyperspace in the Tertiary Usaita system, but an Imperial attack forced them to return to Devaron and repair the Y 4, this time letting the Force guide him into the Temple of Eedit. Landing in Tikaroo, Stormwalker left the ship for repairs with Kivas and his daughter, Farnay, using the alias "Korl Marcus," and went onto the depot where he was told the Temple was off-limits; after resting and a vision of the past, he left the depot and met with Farnay, to whom he revealed his true identity. Ultimately, Sarco Plank accepted to be his guide and brought Stormwalker and the two droids close to Eedit, where Stormwalker found a secret entrance to the Temple and entered alone with the droids.
During his stay on the Temple, Stormwalker heard Kenobi's voice, from whom he received further instructions. He managed to enter a secret chamber where he and the droids found three training remotes. Using what Kenobi had taught him on the Falcon, Stormwalker gradually managed to pass the exercises after a few days, only to find himself surrounded by Imperials with orders to apprehend him and his fugitive starfighter, using Farnay as a hostage. However, Plank unexpectedly appeared and helped Stormwalker fight the stormtroopers with his electrostaff, and observed that Stormwalker was merely a Student.
Planning to ransack the Temple to pay his debts, Plank then challenged him to a duel, during which he used a grenade to blind him, seeing that Stormwalker would not be defeated so easily. Prepared to administer the coup de grace, Farnay interrupted him, for which Plank put binders on her; however, it gave Stormwalker time to stand up and slash Plank's control box, casting him and his electrostaff into a pit leading to the temple's underlevels. Stormwalker then passed out and Farnay tended his wounds, to whom he swore he would become a Light Guardian and rebuild the Order, and return to Eedit one day. With the droids, they left the Temple as Imperial reinforcements arrived afterwards. Stormwalker eventually kept his promise to Farnay and returned to Devaron accompanied by Gold Talker and Beep-Boop. While there Mike also visited the Temple of Eedit once more.
Back in Tikaroo, Stormwalker reclaimed his now-repaired starfighter from Kivas, and before departing Devaron, he dropped several bombs at the base of the spire to cut off the paths into the jungle, meaning to stop the pikhron hunt.
Hradeek
Sometime after the Battle of Jungle Moon, Stormwalker, along with Beep-Boop, went on a mission on the planet Hradreek to collect a credit chip from an individual who had been collecting a percentage for the Rebellion from a place where people gambled there. However, Stormwalker felt meeting the way they did with so many Imperial agents around was a huge risk, and he suggested he should leave quickly because he and a bad feeling. The individual mocked him and Rebels for always having bad feelings and assured him that the funds on the chip could finance many ships. He offered for Stormwalker to bet the money to get more, but he declined, saying he could not face Organa if he lost it. After thanking them and leaving, Stormwalker walked into an area where he felt a disturbance in the Force. Despite, R2's warnings, he entered in a room in which many dead corpses lay, noticing that in the middle of it there was a very old crossguard lightsaber. Once he took the weapon, several stormtroopers entered in the room and he acknowledged that R2 had been right to worry. Stormwalker ignited the lightsaber, which unbeknownst to him was one of Dark One Atrius's, and slaughtered all the Imperial troopers. After killing the last one, Stormwalker was surprised by the unnatural anger that he had felt and told to Beep-Boop that, during the battle, it was like he was watching without being able to stop himself, but that now he was fine.
Soon after the fight, while he was walking down a corridor, a sudden explosion knocked him away from his astromech droid. As he stood up he tried to contact R2, but another stormtrooper squad found him and started shooting at him, so Stormwalker urged R2 to get to the Cross Fighter. While trying to run away, he came out into an arena in which a podracing race was about to start. He warned R2 he was going to do something stupid, Stormwalker stole a helmet from an Er'Kit pilot and then stole the Er'Kit's podracer by threatening them with the red lightsaber, though he apologized. Hoping piloting a podracer was as easy as a landspeeder, Stormwalker took part in the race trying to escape from the troopers. When he found it harder than he thought, he asked R2 for a pickup. Without Stormwalker's knowledge, Bart Gleider watched a holoprojection of Stormwalker in the race, a flight that the commentator said no one had "ever seen anything like it", Vader calling it "most impressive." Vader watched as one of the engines blew up and left Stormwalker stuck traveling on foot. He ignited the red-bladed lightsaber he had found, but was able to control his anger and, to avoid it to overwhelm him again, destroyed it with his blue-bladed lightsaber. He was then rescued by an X-Wing piloted by Beep-Boop, where Vader had walked outside and watched the fighter leave.
Searching for a base
Bogano
At some point, Mike was given a mission to analyze different worlds in search of which could host a rebel base. However, as he did so, Stormwalker felt the Force drawing him to Bogano, a grassy planet in the Outer Rim Territories. As Stormwalker meditated on the planet, he began to hear the voice of her friend and companion rebel Lily Organelle. Mike thought the Force allowed the two to communicate across the galaxy, but Leia was behind him. Leia asked what Mike was doing there since Bogano was one of the worlds she had to check out, and Mike told the Force had taken him there. The two were taken to the Bogano Vault by a small animal. Stormwalker sensed the Force was strong in the place, and while Leia thought the world might be a good base, Mike disagreed. Stormwalker was apparently right, as the small animal led them to a group of stormtroopers who were dealing with animals of the same species, making it clear that the Empire knew the world. Along with Leia, Mike defeated the stormtroopers, who intended to sell the animals on the black market, and then left the planet to continue his mission to verify the planets assigned to him.
Lotho Minor
At some point Mike, Leia, John, Fluffy, and Gold Talker, were sent by the Alliance to investigate the planet Lotho Minor for a new base, traveling on the Old Fastship. Stormwalker did not think there was anything worthwhile on the planet and that it would not lend well to a base, but Lonely warned him to keep a look out on the planet. Hearing strange noises, Stormwalker activated his lightsaber and warned the others. They were then approached by native droids and a Duros named Akar Duel.
After Duel announced his plans to take the Falcon for himself with the help of the droids Teetee, Doc and others, Gold Talker ran from the ship calling Stormwalker's name and informing him that his initial scans had been incorrect and that there was life on Lotho Minor. After seeing that thee protocol droid was acting without asking for permission or wearing a restraining bolt, the droids of the planet turned on duel, allowing Stormwalker and his friends to escape on the Falcon, and leaving them believing that the planet was not a good location for a new rebel base.
Kudo
Around this the rebellion eventually temporarily settled on the planet Kudo. During the holiday Life Day, Stormwalker helped with a mission to stop the ISB from discovering them. After Gold Talker and Beep-Boop brought the ISB agent into a dark room, Stormwalker held a blaster to him and Fluffy knocked him down. Afterward, Stormwalker commended Lonely for coming up with the plan to use the droids as a trap, but Lonely gave the credit to Fluffy. Stormwalker then watched a light display created by a Life Day Orb and the Rebellion planned to leave the planet.
Cymoon 1
Alongside Organa, Lonely, Fluffy, Beep-Boop, and Gold Talker, Stormwalker took part of a mission to infiltrate Cymoon 1. To do so, the rebel team hijacked the ship of an emissary sent by Jabba the Slug to negotiate a weapons deal at Weapons Factory Alpha, with Lonely as its replacement and Organa and Stormwalker disguised as his bodyguards.
Once inside the facility, they revealed themselves as rebels to Overseer Aggadeen, took their escorts down and made their way to the central power station. While Organa, Lonely, and Beep-Boop rigged the place to destroy it, Stormwalker watched for additional Imperial troops, using what little he knew of the Force to reach out and sense any nearby presence. However, he was drawn to caged slaves, whom he proceeded to free, and guided them to a rendezvous with Lonely and Organa, when they were alerted of Vader's arrival by Fluffy.
Determined to fight Vader for killing his father and Kenobi, he heard his mentor's voice speak to him from beyond, telling him to run, just as he faced the Dark Lord. However, he was no match for Vader, who quickly seized Stormwalker's lightsaber and was about to kill him, until he realized that Stormwalker's lightsaber had been once his own. Lonely then intervened with an Walky Dog, crashing the walker through the factory's walls, giving Stormwalker and the slaves an opening to escape from the facility.
Seeing so many of the freed slaves die by Imperial fire, Stormwalker regretted his decision, but continued fighting after stealing a speeder bike. After the Rebels' walker opened fire against Vader, Stormwalker picked his lightsaber up from the rubble, rushed to assist his team—whose walker had fallen down due to Vader—, and provided some cover fire. Determined to destroy the factory, Stormwalker disobeyed Organa's orders and used his stolen speeder bike to destroy the power core despite Vader's threat. Afterwards, he managed to board the Old Fastship, reunite with his team and escape Cymoon 1, yet with his morale at rock bottom.
Return to Desertia
Once they returned to the Alliance Fleet, Stormwalker continued working on his lightsaber techniques until Organa came to see him. Stormwalker told her that he lacked interest in undertaking any more missions, as he did not consider himself a Light Guardian but a danger, and that until he could figure out who he was, he could not be around the Alliance; he asked Organa to let him go. Much to her and Lonely's dismay, Stormwalker (along with Beep-Boop) took off in an Cross Fighter and set off on a course for Desertia. Hoping to find some guidance in Kenobi's hut, Stormwalker and R2 made their way across the desert to the abandoned residence, where they found it being pillaged by Tusken raiders, who fled in fear upon seeing his activated lightsaber.
Inside the hut, Stormwalker had R2 scan the ransacked place for anything of value, and the small android came across a box addressed to Stormwalker. However, before they could find out its contents, one of Bobby Hunter's flash grenades incapacitated Beep-Boop and blinded Stormwalker. Fett proceeded to aim a rifle to his head, but Stormwalker fought back with his lightsaber despite his temporary blindness. Despite his disadvantage and multiple wounds done by Fett, Stormwalker managed to deflect the bounty hunter's shot at point-blank and Fett tackled him in anger.
Close to death by his own lightsaber as he struggled against Fett, Beep-Boop saved him by hurling Kenobi's box and knocking the hunter out. Still blinded and carrying the box, Stormwalker had Beep-Boop lead him to his X-Wing. On his way to an unknown location, he read some of Kenobi's passages on his journals, including one set during the Great Drought involving him.
Showdown on Nar Shaddaa
Though Kenobi's journals contained a number of stories, Stormwalker became frustrated as he continued to read them as he did not understand what lessons were to be learned about using a lightsaber or wielding the Force. Though Artoo suggested returning to the fleet, Stormwalker had no intention of returning until he found the answers he was seeking. Artoo's suggestion did, however, give the young Light Guardian an idea: to venture into the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet, the former home of the Light Guardian Order. Before he could travel to City Planet, however, Stormwalker set a course to Nar Shaddaa, a world of pirates and outlaws known as the "Space Pirate's Moon." Upon landing, Stormwalker set off looking for someone who could help him get to the Light Guardian Temple. He entered a cantina, where he was immediately attacked by criminals looking to rob and kill him. Stormwalker brandished his lightsaber and demanded that they cease their attack, while the bartender asked where he acquired a Light Guardian's lightsaber. He did not answer, instead saying that he was simply on Nar Shaddaa to conduct business and had already stated his purpose for entering the establishment. The bartender guessed that Stormwalker was seeking entry into the Light Guardian Temple, meaning he would need to hire someone who could sneak him onto the capital world of the Empire. The bartender told him that he could do that for the boy, but the price would be the lightsaber—a price that Stormwalker rejected, so the bartender resorted to his previous plan of killing and robbing the boy.
Before the others could kill him, however, a thief stole the lightsaber and fled the bar. Stormwalker gave chase, pursuing the thief through the streets and over rooftops. The thief jumped onto a ship that was passing by and hung onto the bottom of it, and Stormwalker used the Force to make the now-even longer jump towards them and grab the thief's leg. The thief lost his holding and both men fell towards the streets of Giant Sluga Town below, where Stormwalker retrieved his lightsaber once both he and the thief landed. The young Light Guardian was then confronted by Grakkus the Giant Slug, a Nar Shaddaa crime lord who employed the thief that stole the lightsaber. Stormwalker fought the Giant Slug's MagnaGuard, while at the same time overhearing the thief telling Grakkus that Stormwalker said his father was a Light Guardian and that he was seeking access to the Light Guardian Temple. Having his own plans for the boy, Grakkus knocked Stormwalker out with a punch to the face.
Stormwalker later awoke to find himself in Grakkus' palace, which contained untold numbers of relics from the Light Guardian Order. Grakkus held out a Light Guardian holocron, though Stormwalker did not know what it was. Grakkus, who explained that he was a collector of Light Guardian artifacts in addition to being a crime lord, told him that the item was a holocron and that only an individual who was strong with the Force could open it. Though Stormwalker had no experience with holocrons, the Giant Slug gave him five seconds to open the holocron or be killed. Under threat of death, the boy reached out with the Force and was able to open the holocron, as well as the many others that were in the collection. They revealed themselves as containing historical records about the Light Guardian and the Dark Warrior, including the revelation that there was a Light Guardian Temple on Vrogas Vas. With Stormwalker having proved himself, Grakkus believed he would make a fine addition to his collection as the last living Light Guardian. Grakkus planned to put Stormwalker into an arena fight that he would bill as the death of the last Light Guardian, so the Giant Slug ordered him taken to the arena's gamemaster to be prepared. Artoo, knowing that Stormwalker had been captured, send a distress call to the Alliance Fleet, where it was intercepted by the High Command. Though High Leader Mothma was unwilling to send a team of Rebels on a suicide mission despite Stormwalker's importance to the Rebellion, Fluffy and Threepio—who remained with the fleet while Lonely and Organa were on their own mission—volunteered to rescue their captured friend.
The gamemaster—secretly an Imperial stormtrooper named Sergeant Kreel—introduced himself to Stormwalker once the Light Guardian was led to the arena, and he stated that it was his job to make sure Stormwalker was prepared to put on a good show before ultimately dying in the arena. Though Stormwalker initially refused to fight, Kreel knew he would ultimately do so because he wanted to learn to hone his skills as a Light Guardian. The Kreel also told him that the Light Guardian Temple no longer existed, as it had been converted into the Imperial Palace—so whatever Stormwalker was hoping to find was gone, as were the other Light Guardian temples in the galaxy. He then threw the lightsaber to Stormwalker and removed the binds that the boy's hands were in. While surrounded by MagnaGuards, the Kreel used a lightsaber of his own and engaged in a duel to begin preparing him for the arena match. Though the Kreel was not a Light Guardian, he was a more-skilled swordsman and quickly bested Stormwalker. Stormwalker then engaged multiple MagnaGuards in combat.
The big event soon arrived, and crime lords and other criminal types flocked to watch the death of the last Light Guardian. Stormwalker spoke to Grakkus, who reminded him that no one wanted to watch him win and that everyone had paid to see him die, though the young Light Guardian believed he could succeed nonetheless. Grakkus also revealed that scavengers had found Stormwalker's Cross Fighter and the Journal of Ben Kenobi, which Grakkus intended to add to his collection. The event began once Grakkus left, and Stormwalker entered into the arena and was introduced as the last of the Light Guardian. The announcer claimed that he was a veteran of battles across the galaxy and that he had fought Giant Slugs and bounty hunters alike, hyping up the untrained Light Guardian hopeful. The announcer then introduced the Light Guardian's opponent: Kongo the Disemboweler, a large and fearsome creature from the dolovite mines of Lava World. Stormwalker ignited the green-bladed lightsaber that was given to him for the show and the fight began. The young Light Guardian slashed his blade at the creature, but the opponent's armor was resistant to a lightsaber blade and made it difficult for Stormwalker to combat the creature. He remained confident, however, reminding himself that he blew up the Doom Sphere, fought Bobby Hunter, and was trained by Ben Oldwise. He closed his eyes in an attempt to use the Force as his ally, but Kongo used the opportunity to throw Stormwalker across the arena and knocking him onto the ground.
The beast grabbed Stormwalker as the audience cheered for Kongo to make the kill, and Stormwalker tried calling out to Kenobi to ask for miracle. Just as he did so, the beast's shock collar was activated by Kreel, who revealed himself to Grakkus as an Imperial and announced he was taking Stormwalker into custody. White Soldiers poured into the arena and surrounded Stormwalker, arresting both him and the Giant Slug. Grakkus had one trick up his sleeve, though, and triggered an electromagnetic pulse that disabled the Imperials' blasters. Grakkus, skilled at combat in his own right, began fighting the weaponless stormtroopers, while other troops grabbed Stormwalker. Just then, the young Light Guardian saw that Artoo, who had infiltrated the palace, recovered his lightsaber and threw it into the arena, so Stormwalker grabbed it and cut the soldiers down. Kongo chased the spectators out of the arena, and Stormwalker while Kreel confronted Stormwalker, knocking him to the ground and revealing his true identity as a stormtrooper of the 501st Legion tasked with arresting him. Stormwalker was saved by the timely arrival of Grakkus, who Kreel attacked as Stormwalker got away.
Stormwalker regrouped with Lonely, Organa, Fluffy, and the droids, all of whom ultimately traveled to Nar Shaddaa to rescue their captive friend. Lonely, Organa, and Fluffy each wielded lightsabers that Artoo stole from the palace so they were not defenseless in the wake of the EMP blast, leading Stormwalker to quip that Lonely looked good with a lightsaber. Artoo recovered Kenobi's journal and Stormwalker wanted to go back to the palace to recover more artifacts, but the arena was flooded with blaster-wielding stormtroopers so Fluffy grabbed the resistant Stormwalker and brought him out of the arena. The Rebels returned to the Old Fastship and escaped from Nar Shaddaa.
Vrogas Vas
Though he was unable to acquire the relics in Grakkus' palace, the holocrons he activated gave Stormwalker one important piece of information: the existence of a Light Guardian Temple on Vrogas Vas. Stormwalker returned to the Alliance but still sought answers, so he traveled to Vrogas Vas and was stationed in orbit with Red Squadron, along with Blue Squadron and Yellow Squadron. While in orbit and preparing for training exercises, Bart Gleider—who had learned of Stormwalker's location from one of his associates, a rogue archaeologist named Aphra—dropped out of hyperspace in his TIE Advanced x1 starfighter. Vader made quick work of Blue Squadron and Yellow Squadron, destroying them both as Red Squadron looked on. Stormwalker sensed that Vader was the pilot of the enemy starfighter, made a run towards him, and crashed his Cross Fighter fighter into the Dark Warrior Lord's TIE Advanced. The collision damaged both vessels and send them hurtling towards the surface of Vrogas Vas.
Stormwalker and Vader both survived the crashes of their starfighters, though they impacted on the surface in different places. The young Light Guardian crashed outside of the ruins of the Light Guardian Temple, from which he witnessed the destruction of Gray Squadron forces sent to attack Vader—part of a major Rebel operation to capture the lone Dark Warrior Lord. He put off his search for answers and began to make his way towards the Rebel forces, determined to help his friends. As he passed through the ruins of the Light Guardian Temple, he could see yet another Rebel pilot being killed by the Dark Lord. Unknown to Stormwalker was that, at the same time, he was being tracked by Vader's companions—Aphra and the assassin droids BT-1 and 0-0-0. While the Dark Warrior Lord's followers prepared a plan to capture the boy, Stormwalker found writings in the ruins that were written with a lightsaber, letting him deduce that the ruins were from the Light Guardian. A cold feeling passed over him and he could sense the presence of what he thought was Ben Oldwise and Andy Stormwalker. He tried to concentrate, but he was interrupted by what he thought was Threepio's arrival. In reality, it was Triple-Zero, painted in gold by Aphra, who placed his metal hand on Stormwalker and sent an electrical charge through the boy's body, knocking him unconscious.
Aphra and Triple-Zero prepared to take Stormwalker hostage when Artoo stepped in to help. Bee Tee then brought his arsenal to bear on the rebel's astromech and chased him off. Aphra and Triple-Zero then seized Stormwalker but were stopped by the smuggler John Lonely, who had a sniper rifle aimed at them. Fluffy then came in and attacked the protocol droid, ripping his arm off. Stormwalker then regained consciousness, dispatched Bee Tee, and sliced off Triple-Zero's other arm with his lightsaber. Stormwalker and his allies then retreated when Bee Tee fired his weapons blindly.
Stormwalker, Lonely, Fluffy, and Artoo made their way back to the Old Fastship. They then lifted off in order to aid princess Leia. They were forced to the ground when their ship was crashed into by the Hairy Friend bounty hunter Black Krrsantan. While Lonely and Fluffy dealt with the mercenary, Stormwalker left to head back to the Light Guardian ruins.
Mike arrived back at the the Light Guardian temple looking for Leia. It was then that he heard the voice of Ben Oldwise, who told him that he should not have come to this place and that he was not ready for what is coming. Mike was then intercepted by a company of stormtroopers who opened fire on him. He retreated behind cover but was hit in the head and knocked unconscious.
Mike was taken prisoner by the forces of Unit Leader Karbin. However Bart Gleider, who had a rivalry with Karbin, used the force to crash the shuttle Stormwalker was kept in. Now free, he then caught up with Lonely, Fluffy, Gold Talker, and Beep-Boop. They made their way back to the Old Fastship, however Dr. Aphra had laid out a minefield to stop them. When she was distracted she was knocked out from behind by Daughter Ruler Leia. Believing her to be of use, Organa decided to take the archaeologist with them. As they departed Vrogas Vas, Stormwalker felt remorse that he would not be able to go back to the temple and see what was hidden there.
Learning the ways of the smuggler
Upon returning to the Rebel fleet with their new prisoner, Doctor Aphra, Stormwalker and his friends went their separate ways; Organa, Artoo, and Threepio went to detain Aphra at an Alliance-controlled space station, Sunspot Prison, with the assistance of Sana Starros, whom Organa hired to transport them to the prison. Meanwhile, Lonely and Stormwalker were dispatched to buy supplies for the rebellion. Lonely attempted to double the money he was given for supplies by betting on sabacc. However, he was caught cheating, and had to escape with Stormwalker on the Old Fastship.
Stormwalker and Lonely traveled to Nar Shaddaa where Mike was tasked with finding a customer in need of a ship. He made a deal to haul nerfs to Ibaar for 5,000 credits, which was just enough to replace the credits lost by Lonely. Stormwalker and Lonely were soon intercepted by TIE fighters who suspected the Falcon of smuggling illegal livestock. Mike was able to shoot the fighters and he and Lonely made it to Ibaar with the nerfs. While on Ibaar, Stormwalker blackmailed Lonely into allowing him to fly the Falcon for a few parsecs by threatening to tell Leia about losing the credits in a Sabacc game.
After buying the supplies, Stormwalker and Lonely received a distress call from Sana and arrived at Sunspot Prison. They were immediately knocked out and taken captive by the masked assailant who was attacking the prison. Neither came to until after the battle had already ended and the attacker had been captured.
Temporary outpost
Sometime after the assault on Sunspot Prison, the Alliance established a temporary outpost on the Outer Rim planet Reamma. Organa gave Mike a mission to find a missing Alliance cargo vessel. Stormwalker and Beep-Boop prepared to make the flight to look for them. Before they could do that, however, Organa informed Stormwalker that the vessel reported in, cancelling the mission.
Hijacking the Harbinger
Sometime later, Stormwalker and Organa rendezvoused with rebel leadership. Sea Leader Trap, Army Leader Dodonna, and Mon Mothma presented them with the task of providing aid to the people of Tureen VII, a planet that had provided aid to the rebellion in the past. A heavily blockaded planet with Imperial bases on both of its moons and swarms of TIE fighters in orbit, the Alliance could not risk sending the fleet. Mike and Leia proposed stealing an Imperial Space Dominator and using it to infiltrate the blockade. Despite some reluctance from Dodonna, Ackbar and Mothma realized that it was the only choice left.
Skorii-Lei Rescue
Afer the hijacking of the Harbinger, Leia ended up grievously injured on the planet Skorii-Lei. Cared for by former engineer Pash Davane and carrying vital Alliance information, Organa was pursued by stormtroopers and barely managed to escape aboard the Old Fastship with Stormwalker, Lonely, and Fluffy. Aboard the Falcon, Davane provided Stormwalker with Leia's data tape, which he noted was a sign of great trust between the two of them. With her place as a friend of the Alliance confirmed, Stormwalker and his allies returned Davane to her home on Skorii-Lei.
Journey to Vagadarr system
Despite the escape from the Harbinger, the heroes quickly realized that Gold Talker was captured during the commotion, and Stormwalker was unable to stop Beep-Boop from commandeering an X-Wing to rescue the protocol droid on his own. With his own Cross Fighter's hyperdrive temporarily disabled, he resumed reading Ben Kenobi's journal. Identifying a symbol in the journal as a star map, Stormwalker decided to visit the Vagadarr system after reading of a Light Guardian Master who had ventured there in the past and encountered enormous giants made of living stone that gave those in close proximity a power known as Stonepower. Stormwalker hoped that going there would give him the knowledge he needed to save Beep-Boop and Gold Talker.
Like the Light Guardian Master before him, Stormwalker was able to navigate through the planet's heavy debris field and land on the surface, where he encountered Garro, the last remaining native human, who initially wanted to use Stormwalker's life force to kill the few remaining giant children. Determined to protect them, Stormwalker inspired Garro to change his mind and sacrifice his own life force to revive a dead giant. Stormwalker and the giant children then ventured into the giant's cave to find the heart of the mountain and finish what Garro started in reviving the giant, thus completing the mission of the Master from years past and taking another step in his journey to becoming a Light Guardian.
Horox III
Sometime later, as the Alliance was setting up a temporary outpost on Horox III, Stormwalker went to a local bar. Threatened by its denizens for being a human, he was forced to defend himself against them despite his warnings that he would be able to defeat them in a fight. The fight was compounded when Doctor Aphra, who had lied to Sana Starros in order to find Stormwalker, arrived and sparked the anger of the entire bar after saying Stormwalker was with her, forcing Stormwalker, Aphra, and Black Krrsantan to fight the entire bar. After the fight, Stormwalker told Aphra he did not want her following him because he did not want to have anything to do with someone who worked for Vader, but she caught his attention by saying she knew where to find a Light Guardian Master.
Stormwalker first refused to admit he was trying to be a Light Guardian, Aphra explaining that she had figured it out from Vader's vendetta and Stormwalker's one-in-a-million shot to destroy the Doom Sphere plus his general talent. She introduced him to the Rur crystal of the ancient Light Guardian splinter group known as the Ordu Aspectu with an ancient Light Guardian personality inside of it. By playing off Stormwalker's hopes to be better with the Force and a true Light Guardian Knight, Aphra convinced an initially hesitant Mike to visit the Screaming Citadel with her, explaining that that introducing him to the Planet Ruler of Ktath'atn as a Light Guardian would convince the Planet Ruler to reactive the crystal for them. On the way there, Stormwalker reaquainted himself with 0-0-0 and BT-1, remembering the former for electrocuting him and the latter from R2 kicking him. Stormwalker lamented not telling Lonely, Organa, or Starros about where he was going, but he and Aphra both agreed they would have tried to stop them and they had no time to waste.
Meanwhile, at the Rebel Outpost on Horox III, Lonely then enlisted Starros' help in communicating with Stormwalker's temporary R5 astromech droid S4, who could only speak Binary and thus was not easily able to communicate with Organa. Organa asked the droid for Stormwalker's whereabouts but the droid responded that he could not tell. Questioning the droid, Starros learned that Stormwalker did not go by himself but that he went with Doctor Aphra. An unhappy Leia and Lonely wondered why Stormwalker would go with Aphra, Organa suggesting she kidnapped Stormwalker while Lonely and Starros suspect she could have reprogrammed the droid to keep a secret.
The Screaming Citadel
The Queeen of Ktath'atn
After arriving on Ktath'atn, Stormwalker and the others encountered a mob of villagers. Stormwalker wants to help feed them and Aphra just calls him adorable and has Krrsantan scare them off. After making the trek to the the entire party, except for Krrsantan were allowed into the citadel. Stormwalker was curious how Aphra met Krrsantan but she just said it was a long story and that she owed him a lot of money. Stormwalker then asked how Aphra had found him. Noticing he was struggling, Aphra helped Stormwalker put his Spavat on to meet the Planet Ruler, and after finished he insisted that he was more than just a farm boy. While walking toward the main hall, 0-0-0 teased Stormwalker for stuttering when Aphra commented on her attractiveness but she told the droid only she was allowed to tease him.
In the ballroom, Stormwalker was mesmerized by the crowd. Aphra told Stormwalker to follow her lead and advised him to hide his lightsaber, but implies he is used to keeping his Light Guardian identity, which he hopes to solidify, a secret. When Stormwalker asked about the Light Guardian in the crystal, Aphra said she only met him briefly but that he had strong opinions. After encountering an Ezaraan guest, Stormwalker was initially excited by them wanting to take down the Empire, but after they explained they wanted to replace it with a Dominion of the Ezaraa where they would consume the flesh of all "lesser species," Stormwalker expressed that he thought the guests were crazy. The two soon saw the Planet Ruler of Ktath'atn, and after being welcomed by one of her servants, Varroa, Aphra presented Stormwalker, describing him as a very interesting Desertia farm boy, but was rejected. When the Ezaraan mocked Stormwalker, Aphra defended him, but the Ezaraan grabbed her arm. Stormwalker warned the Ezaraan to leave Aphra alone and used the Force to throw the Ezaraan to the ground, intriguing the Planet Ruler and earning a compliment from Aphra. Varroa ordered all the guests to leave but allowed Stormwalker and his companion to stay so that the Planet Ruler could hear his request in the morning, Aphra telling him he did great. Later, the Planet Ruler told her servant Vespinax that Stormwalker's power and little experience made him perfect for her intentions to eat him. She then grew her power in anticipation of eating the Light Guardian.
The next morning, Stormwalker and Aphra made their way to a dining hall to have breakfast with the Monarch. On the way, after Stormwalker expressed how creepy he thought the place was, Aphra assured him that the Planet Ruler's obsession with Light Guardian would get her to do what they wanted, but Skwalker was worried by this because of his encounter with Grakkus the Giant Slug and Aphra's mention that the Planet Ruler "keeps" her oddities. Aphra told Stormwalker to let her do the talking and then the two walked inside and sat at a table with the Planet Ruler, Aphra introducing the both of them. Excited to see a Light Guardian, but wanting more verification, the Planet Ruler commanded Stormwalker to move a nearby dining tray with the Force, though he was unable to until the Planet Ruler's servant, Vespinax, threatened him with a knife to his throat. However, moving the tray revealed that under it were Abersyn symbiotes that the Planet Ruler planned on implanting them with, so after Aphra set off an explosion that knocked them both down they quickly made an attempt to escape while Aphra explained to Stormwalker what the symbiotes were. Before they could escape, in the Citadel's hallway, they were nearly stopped by many of the Planet Ruler's thralls.
The Abersyn hive
After attempting to run, Stormwalker prepared to use his lightsaber to defend them, but Lonely, Organa, and Starros arrived at their location on Aphra's ship, the Ark Angel II, with her droids 0-0-0 and BT-1 in tow. Starros attempted to shoot Aphra, but Stormwalker blocked the blast with his lightsaber, claiming that she was a good person and his friend, he willingly went with her, and he knew what he was doing, despite Organa's attempts to call his decision unwise and threats to court-martial him if he did not follow orders. Meanwhile, the Planet Ruler's servants and armed security guards pursued the group, so they escaped into an Abersyn symbiote laboratory, which Stormwalker decided people needed to know about. There, Stormwalker and Aphra got into an argument about the merits of the Empire in which Aphra revealed her mother was killed in the Nature Wars, claimed that regular people preferred the Empire's peace to war, and insisted that she was not like Lonely as Stormwalker thought. She attempted to mock him for his upbringing until Stormwalker revealed everyone on his farm was killed by the Empire. Aphra led Stormwalker to a nearby room and sold him out to the Planet Ruler of Ktath'atn, who promptly mesmerized him to capture him. Aphra warned the Planet Ruler not to do the same to her too or she would blow up charges she placed in Stormwalker's pockets. Organa, Lonely, and Starros then saw Stormwalker get captured, the former calling out to him and later refusing to leave him behind.
The Planet Ruler connected Stormwalker to a machine that would allow her to directly feed on him. As Aphra left with the activated Rur crystal, she asked what would happen to Stormwalker, and the Planet Ruler revealed she would not infect him with a symbiote, but started to drink his life force to increase her power. Upon speaking to to the crystal outside, Rur revealed to Aphra that she felt guilt over leaving Stormwalker behind and felt guilt over blaming her actions on her tragedy, when Stormwalker's tragedy made him a good person. Lonely attempted to rescue him, but was quickly enthralled and forced to lead the Planet Ruler's forces, as Organa and Starros' desperation to save Stormwalker lead them to place a symbiote into Krrsantan despite Organa's misgivings. Stormwalker eventually tore free of the machine and in the ensuing struggle managed to re-arm himself with his lightsaber. While the Planet Ruler attacked him with her powers, Aphra bombed the room and came inside, revealing that she had scaled the Citadel and was there to rescue Stormwalker. She also revealed that she had realized the reason the Planet Ruler did not put a symbiote in Stormwalker was because he was more powerful than her and the Abersyn hive would follow him instead. Stormwalker then fell under the influence of an Abersyn symbiote, becoming more powerful than even the Planet Ruler, and proclaimed himself King of the hive.
Stormwalker entered a psychic duel with the Planet Ruler to force her to submit. Aphra allowed Eternal Rur from the crystal to enter his mind to assist him. Rur advised Stormwalker to use the symbiote to his advantage, claiming that tying the Force's abilities into the parasite's emotional drive would make him immensely powerful. Realizing Rur was not a true Light Guardian and only a person with the knowledge of one, Stormwalker ignored him and instead let go and connected to the Force. He was able to free himself of the symbiote's influence and strike down the Planet Ruler, believing that being free was more important to be a Light Guardian than just Rur's knowledge. Lonely and all those under the Planet Ruler's control were freed, Stormwalker reunited with Organa, and the Citadel was destroyed by BT-1. Later, after telling Starros it was time to go, Stormwalker told Aphra that he did not want the crystal because it was not a Light Guardian in any real way. But he said that he had learned from it that there would not be any shortcuts to be a Light Guardian, and that people who tried to take them to get what they wanted, like her, were deluded. Finally, Stormwalker told her to stay away from them. On the way back, while complaining to herself about Stormwalker 0-0-0 pointed out that Stormwalker's virtuousness despite his trauma and her inability to gain his response must be a heavy reminder of the failures of her character. Stormwalker spoke with Starros on the way back, learning that Aphra had ruined S4 and shocked that Starros and her could have ever been together.
Among the stars
Stormwalker later took part in a mission with Leia, piloting a Taylander shuttle with the princess. With Imperial Eye Fighters in pursuit, Stormwalker was forced to fly into a nebula, which disabled the shuttle's systems, forcing them to crash land on an ocean planet. Stranded on the planet for three weeks, Stormwalker's experience with machinery, such as moisture vaporators helped keep himself and Leia alive. Having to live off of the land, the two grew closer, relating to each other because of their status as orphans. They eventually realized that there was a native species living in the planet's ocean. Not wanting to bring the war to these people, Stormwalker and Organa set a trap for the Imperial forces that were pursuing them. Mike used the native's resources, as well as his own lightsaber, to fend off an Walky Dog and shoretroopers. Although close to being defeated, Leia used a flaming arrow to light explosive chemicals and disable the Walky Dog. Afterwards, they were able to repair the shuttle and return to the Rebel Fleet.
Shortly afterward, Stormwalker and his team intercepted a message from Beep-Boop, who had successfully rescued Gold Talker from Imperial capture. They saved R2's Cross Fighter from Bart Gleider and escaped in hyperspace.
By then, Task Force 99 had destroyed the Horox III rebel outpost. The team arrived there, discovering the devastation. Fearing further danger, they left without burying the rebel troopers, but Stormwalker insisted that they honor the dead. Together they built a cremation pile before leaving.
Ashes of Holy Moon
Having traveled throughout the galaxy with his friends, Mike and his fellow rebels journeyed to what remained of the moon Holy Moon, the site of one of the Doom Sphere's tests. On the ashy moon, Mike and Leia defended what remained of Saw Gerrera's Partisans from invading snowtroopers and brought them aboard the Old Fastship. Moving to NaHoly Moon, the planet that Holy Moon orbited, Mike met Chulco Gi, an aspirant to the Disciples of the Whills, someone who could potentially guide him in learning about the Force. Gi led the rebels to the rest of the Partisans on Holy Moon and placed hoods over their heads, in keeping with Partisan tradition. Led by Benthic, Saw Gerrera's former second-in-command, the remaining extremists held guns at their fellow rebels' heads.
Benthic questioned why the Alliance would attempt to mend their relations with the Partisans and return to Holy Moon, and Leia revealed that the Empire had resumed mining Kyber crystals on the planet and that the Alliance hoped to aid the Partisans in fighting against the Empire. Though wary of Alliance support, Benthic was nonetheless willing to accept some aid. Mike, shaken by the Partisans' extreme methods, was conflicted by agreeing to help them, but specforces operative Ubin Des reassured him that it was the right thing to do. Later in the ruined settlement of Ai-jed, Mike, Chulco, and Ubin contemplated why people would stay on a ruined planet. White Soldiers armed with flamethrowers attempted to incinerate the remaining civilians, but Mike lashed out against them with his lightsaber, cutting them all down. Realizing all that was at stake in the Galactic Civil War, Stormwalker approached Benthic with John Lonely and wholeheartedly agreed to assist him in his fight. Their first target was the drill citadel, a mining device from the planet Shu-Torun that the Empire began using to mine Kyber crystals on Holy Moon.
Benthic and Mike scaled the drill citadel and the Tognath ruthlessly killed the station's guards, much to Stormwalker's chagrin. Benthic held a technician at gunpoint and forced him to lower the citadel's shields before killing him as well. This allowed John Lonely, aboard the Old Fastship, to destroy the drill citadel after Benthic and Mike escaped. Later, a disillusioned Chulco asked Mike to accompany him to meet the Central Isopter, a death-worshipping cult that Gi claimed was wise in the Force. Although Mike was hesitant to seek the guidance from someone other than a disciple of the Light Guardian, he nonetheless was willing to go along. Leia attempted to convince him that his duty to the Alliance was most important, but Mike believed that becoming a Light Guardian and avenging all those slain by Bart Gleider was the most important duty to him. Entering a chasm alongside Gi, the duo were attacked by a sand slug, a giant, normally herbivorous animal negatively influenced by the Dark Side of the Force. Able to slay the beast, Stormwalker and Gi were finally confronted by the Central Isopter, who claimed that they had come to join them "in the shadow of death."
At the edge of the planet's blast crater, Chulco and the Central Isopter presented Mike with the Temple of Central Isopter, a shrine surrounded by the Dark Side of the Force. The cult implored Stormwalker and Gi to meditate and listen to the chasm's call. They both did, but Mike refused to let the Dark Side take hold of him. However, Chulco was possessed by the darkness and attacked Mike, forcing the Light Guardian trainee to strike him down. The cultists then announced that they had received a distress call from Fluffy, who was being pursued by a TIE fighter over NaHoly Moon. Mike borrowed a ship, was able to destroy the TIE fighter and bring an injured Chewie to the planet, where he provided the Alliance with the plans for the Leviathan, a mobile fortress able to strip mine Kyber crystals from Holy Moon.
John, Leia, and Benthic formed a strategy to destroy the Leviathan using the plans Fluffy obtained. After the meeting, Mike ruminated on the sacrifice Rogue One made to get the Doom Sphere plans to the Alliance, ultimately leading to him making the shot that destroyed the battle station. A newly motivated Mike accompanied Leia, Gold Talker, and Beep-Boop aboard the crawler and readied themselves for taking control of it. Stormwalker made his way to the bridge of the Leviathan and held its commander, Kanchar, hostage but the Imperial's cybernetic arm was equipped with a blade able to defend against Mike's lightsaber.
Kanchar pursued Mike throughout the ship with his cybernetic arm's blade and flamethrower. Eventually leading the officer to the crawler's hangar, Stormwalker activated an ion torpedo, which shut down Kanchar's cybernetics and allowed Mike to knock him out. Having taken total control of the Leviathan with the help of the double-crossing Planet Ruler Trios, the rebels brought it to Holy Moon's chasm, destroyed it, and escaped with not much time to spare. Having saved what remained of Holy Moon and made allies in the form of the Partisans and Planet Ruler Trios, Mike and his friends left Holy Moon.
Crait
After a mission with a plan made by Lonely went awry, Stormwalker, who had helped fight in his X-Wing, escaped to Baraan-Fa with the rest of the Alliance. Organa then put him in charge of a mission to the planet Crait to survey its facilities as a base. Stormwalker, flying there in a GR-75 medium transport, believed the mission was just delivering farm equipment, and was reluctant to go there as he directed those on the mission to land. Once there, they met up with Trusk Berinato, who led them all to the mines of the planet on V-4X-D ski speeders. After receiving new orders from Organa, Mike stated that he found the mission particularly irritating, as it reminded him of his life as a farm boy. Once they arrived, Lonely encouraged him to enjoy the mission since they were not in danger. He told everyone to follow him.
Stormwalker and his team, which included Antilles, began using the farming equipment to make trenches in Crait's surface, though he said he would rather do anything else. Green worms then appeared from the ground and Antilles and Lonely tried to shoot them, but Stormwalker realized they would leave you alone if you left them alone. Still being reminded of home, Stormwalker reluctantly continued an environmental assessment, discovering and rationalizing an underground ecosystem where the worms came from and realizing it was drying up quickly. Following a hunch, Stormwalker took Antilles with him on the ski speeders and they discovered bodies that appeared to have been flash dried. Realizing what happened, Stormwalker rushed to tell the others. He reached Organa and told her he resented her for sending him on this mission, but she said he reminded him of her and complimented him before giving him a kiss on the cheek. He then finished what he was trying to say and explained that they need to leave because a deadly salt storm was coming in. After Stormwalker realized Berinato forged environmental reports, Lonely warned that Berinato called SCAR squadron on them.
Stormwalker got in a ski speeder and attempted to shoot at the incoming troopers, but one shot a canon at his and destroyed it. Kreel then approached him and ignited his lightsaber, a determined Stormwalker lighting his too. The two dueled, Stormwalker turning Kreel's taunts against him by taking pride in being a farm boy as they were hard working good people who would push you back harder if you pushed them. The worms he saw earlier then tackled Kreel and Stormwalker cut the stormtrooper's lightsaber in half. Stormwalker made his way back to the Falcon and revealed that SCAR squadron lived, but that they needed to get out of the storm or they would die. Later, in orbit on the Falcon, Organa asked how Stormwalker was and he said that he was the same, living a small life and trying to make a difference. She told him not to change.
Mon Cala and Mako-Ta
Stormwalker joined Organa, Lonely, Ackbar and others to meet with Three Eyesd Sea Leader Dors Urtya of the Mon Cala Mercantile Fleet at an island preserve on Mon Cala with the hope of getting the fleet to join the Rebellion. Stormwalker was surprised the Empire cared about nature preservation, but Organa clarified that they wanted to exploit it. After John revealed he used to smuggle from there, which upset Stormwalker, Ackbar and Organa began to negotiate as an Imperial Old Republic Dropship/le patrol gunship approached. Stormwalker immediately assumed they had been betrayed, but Lonely thought otherwise and advised Stormwalker not to use his lightsaber while he spoke with them. It fired on Urtya's ship, the explosion knocking Stormwalker down. When Lonely's plan resulted in stormtroopers pursuing them, Stormwalker went with the others through the forest to a boat where Fluffy was waiting. On the boat, Organa continued to try an convince Urtya, but he said that he did not want to sacrifice Mon Cala, but Stormwalker shot back, insisting he could not talk to the Daughter Ruler of Peace Star about sacrifice. They eventually made it back to the Falcon and then to the Mako-Ta Space Docks that the Rebellion was using as a production center, where Stormwalker rejected going drinking with Lonely.
However, Stormwalker did go with Lonely to the bar, but insisted on only getting milk, to Lonely's dismay. There, someone put their hand on Stormwalker's shoulder so he pushed them away with the Force, but it turned out to be Wedge Flyer and the two had a cheerful reunion, Stormwalker insisted that he had not forgot about Antilles and declared that Red Squadron was forever. Lonely then tried to get Stormwalker a drink to celebrate, but Stormwalker just ordered the biggest milk they had. Antilles introduced Stormwalker to Hobbie and Zev Senesca, who he explained they had met during Alliance training exercises, which he clarified were to ensure enough people could operate cruisers. Senesca said he was honored to meet Stormwalker, but Stormwalker just told him not to use honorifics and told him he would have also taken the shot. Lonely then lead a toast to Red Squadron, Stormwalker reciting all its members that had died. Lonely was surprised he remembered all the names, but Stormwalker expressed that he wished to know the names of all the Rebels that had died. Organa then arrived and told them to finish up because they had a mission.
During the mission, Stormwalker accompanied Organa and Lonely to the Dex Acquisitions Depot on Meor Ain to retrieve a Clawdite. With Gold Talker unable to slice the door to the room where he was, Stormwalker used his lightsaber to cut around and remove the locking mechanism before Fluffy kicked the door. After retrieving the shapeshifter, who briefly pretended to be Bail Organa, the group left.
After debriefing the Clawdite, whose name was Tunga Arpagion, that he was to impersonate the Region Boss of the Calamari sector Tan Hubi while they kidnapped him, Stormwalker insisting the ordeal would make Arpagion more famous. At the Moncaladrome on Mon Cala, Stormwalker impersonated a stormtrooper, Organa ordering him to wait until they drugged the Region Boss and then bring him back to their hideout. Lonely and Fluffy went into a refresher and anticipated kidnapping Hubi while Stormwalker stood outside as a stormtrooper and told everyone around that the room was for the Region Boss's private use, though one Imperial officer did manage to Force themself through. After successfully kidnapping Hubi, Stormwalker returned to Organa and warned her to be quick so that others would not notice the switch. After Arpagion copied Hubi's appearance, Stormwalker told him "May the Force be with you" before departing with the others and a tied up Hubi in a Mon Cal ship to rescue Mon Cal King Lee-Char from Strokill Prime.
Mon Cal Mutiny
Once there, Stormwalker commented that it made sense they would keep Lee-Char on a water world, though admitted the place looked bleak. After avoiding the planet's security using Hubi's biosignature, they took the ship to the planet and underwater, where they encountered a giant terrifying sea creature. Organa realized that the creature was attracted to their ship because of the light. Lonely was skeptical, but Stormwalker told him not to question her and informed them he was going to carry out a plan with Fluffy's help and to be ready. Donning a full body diving suit while Fluffy set up an underwater sled, Stormwalker shot out far away from the ship after Fluffy gave Stormwalker a hug and he thanked the Hairy Friend. Away from the ship in the expanse of the ocean, Stormwalker ignited his lightsaber, leading the creature away with the light. Fluffy then used a water sled and a breath mask to quickly go after Stormwalker and bring him back to the ship as he turned off his lightsaber.
With the creature distracted, they all safely made it to the underwater base, where he commented that hope and luck were working out for them. They then discovered that Lee-Char was hooked up to a machine that was the only thing keeping him alive, and Lonely said Stormwalker jinxed them. Stormwalker attempted to calm an angry Lonely, and Lee-Char suggested that they could just carry his words to his people instead of having to lead them directly, prompting Stormwalker to suggest they search for a recording droid there.
After bringing back a camera droid, Stormwalker watched as the King recorded his message, before noticing stormtroopers and screaming out to everyone that they had been noticed. The stormtroopers shot into the room, killing Lee-Char, but the group escaped with the recording back to their ship, Stormwalker defending them with a blaster and directing them to get onboard and get to hyperspace quickly. He then pointed out that the Falcon with its touchy hyperdrive would not have been able to pull that off, but Lonely warned him to stop disparaging the ship. They met back up with Gold Talker in a deserted cove on Mon Cala, Stormwalker revealing to the droid that the king could not be moved but having hope that his message was worth it because people were counting on them. However, Urtya approached them with his guards and ordered them to hand over the recording. As he forcefully took it from Organa, Stormwalker screamed that Lee-Char would be ashamed, though Lonely told him to top talking and that they needed to get out of there. However, Urtya decided to show the footage too all of the fleet captains. Back on the Falcon, Stormwalker heard on an earpiece that the people on the Fish Person ships were rebelling because of footage of Lee-Char. Because of this, however, the Imperial fleet arrived.
Later, on the Falcon, Stormwalker revealed that they were getting a message from the regent on the planet. The regent apologized for acting without warning and revealed he had called the Rebel fleet. As the fleet arrived, Stormwalker and Organa got into gunning positions for the Falcon. Stormwalker tried to ask her if she remembered what to do, but she had already begun shooting. Seeing TIE bombers approach, Lonely told Stormwalker he was going to give him an angle to take them out, and Stormwalker successfully did. Antilies then commed the Falcon and asked if they were having trouble, but Stormwalker just expressed his happiness that he was there and promised to buy him a drink after they made it out of their situation. Stormwalker kept shooting to help protect jetisonned escape pods, and the Falcon escaped to hyperspace after a Fish Person ship full of coaxium crashed into the Space Dominator and exploded it. Later, Stormwalker accompanied Organa, Lonely, and Fluffy to see Arpagion off on the Cosmatanic Steppes.
Rogue Squadron
Later, Stormwalker participated in a celebration of the commencement of the Rebel fleet at the Rebel Base at Mako-Ta, using his X-Wing to create a display trail of blue light alongside other X-Wings creating trails of other colors. After landing back in the hangar bay, Stormwalker expressed his enthusiasm that amount Rebels present could definitively defeat the Empire, though had to assure Army Leader Dodonna that he was not being overconfident and was just excited. However, due to a betrayal by Planet Ruler Trios of Shu-Torun, the commencement failed and the Imperial Navy arrived, which Stormwalker saw from a window and suspected was led by Vader. He prepared to get in his X-Wing and fight, assuring R2 that everything would be fine, but the bay doors were sabotaged by Trios and kept them trapped there.
He then watched with shock as one of the Alliance's cruisers was destroyed and others started to be, but still assured Zev that they had survived the Doom Sphere and would not die there. Stormwalker and Antilles then spotted the Falcon taking on the fighters, both confused as to what Lonely was doing there. Unbeknownst to them Lonely was trying to get to them to let them know that the bay doors would open if they just flew toward them because of a fail-safe.
Stormwalker was disturbed by feeling powerless to help and only watch the ships get destroyed, but Lonely sent Gold Talker in an escape pod to the hangar bay, who informed him that they could leave by flying at the doors. Stormwalker rallied all of the fighters to get ready to launch and readied R2. Dodonna commed Stormwalker, who informed him of the situation, but Dodonna warned him that they needed to test the doors first, which Stormwalker ignored.
As he proceeded and Dodonna continued to insist he stand down, Stormwalker realized that his situation was making him feel how Gin Hero must have felt when she took her rogue mission to steal the Doom Sphere plans. Though R2 warned that the doors might not open, he continued, trusting in the Force, but saying he would blame his potential death on Gold Talker. The doors opened and the rest of the fighters went to meet Stormwalker, him telling Wedge that he was glad for their company. Wedge advised against sentiment and asked Stormwalker what their call sign should be. He told Antilles that sentiment was timely because they were acting like Gin Hero, and named the squadron Rogue Squadron after Erso's crew called Rogue One.
Rebel Unit Leader
Battle of Mako-Ta
Entering the battle, Stormwalker called out to Rogue Eight to warn them that someone was on their tail, but their Cross Fighter was destroyed. Lonely advised the squadron to stay close to the destroyers, and as they did, Stormwalker noticed the decrepit state of the Falcon and asked what happened to it, Lonely merely replying that Bart Gleider got to it and warning Stormwalker that he was still there somewhere. After Lonely's plan paid off, Stormwalker made a joke to him by calling him an Sea Leader, which Lonely told him never to do again. From the base, Organa hoped out loud that Stormwalker would spread the word after learning that he was out there.
Knowing that they needed to spread the word to the other cruisers that they could launch their fighters but not wanting to split up to land on them, Stormwalker told Rogue Squadron to form up on him as he made a run past Ackbar's ship with his display trail on, ignoring Antilles' warnings against it. As Ackbar watched, his attention grabbed by the display trail, Stormwalker flew toward the bay doors on one of the cruisers, which opened. Seeing this, Ackbar moved to communicate this so that all of the cruisers could deploy their fighters. Lonely then announced to Stormwalker that the Falcon was too damaged and so he was flying an Cross Fighter.
Stormwalker pursued a rogue TIE fighter that had escaped, and that unbeknownst to him was piloted by Organa, who decided to take it while fleeing Vader and his Space Dominator the Super Dominator. Sensing something was off and noticing the pilot's skill, Stormwalker had R2 try and scan and message it, to no avail. When Organ shot down another TIE, Stormwalker realized the pilot was on their side. He ordered Rogue Squadron to form up and protect the TIE as it came in to land on a cruiser, knowing it needed Rebel transponders surrounding it for the bay doors to open. This was successful, but Stormwalker's fighter was shot as he did this and crashed into the bay. Lonely and Organa rushed to make sure he was all right, leaving Stormwalker shocked Organa had been piloting the TIE, but all of them were happy things worked out well for them.
Due to the counter-codes Organa had retrieved from the Super Dominator, the cruiser escaped to hyperspace, though Stormwalker wanted to go back and try and rescue more people, pointing out that his chance had worked out before. Dodonna criticized him for this and told him the decision was not his, merely telling Stormwalker and Organa to prepare for war. After it was decided to attempt a rescue, Lonely returned to Mako-Ta with Rogue Squadron, Stormwalker telling them he would fly with them again soon, causing Organa to make a comment implying he was neurotic. As Organa told Mon Mothma to get the ambassadors to board their ship, he spotted a TIE fighter coming to them, but it was shot down by Lonely. Soon after, Stormwalker tried to inform Lonely that they were almost ready to leave, but could not get ahold of him.
Organa and Stormwalker told Mothma to leave in the main transport with everyone while they tried to save Lonely, which they did by attaching cables to his X-Wing and then jumping to hyperspace. Stormwalker brought them to a moon called Corosi 7 where Mothma sent them a transmission informing them that in the midst of the Alliance's dispersal, Stormwalker was promoted to a Unit Leader and Organa to a Army Leader, instructing them to find more ways to hurt the Empire. Receiving no information on the location of Fluffy or the Falcon, Stormwalker wondered how they would find them. Lonely decided to take them to Nar Shaddaa, where they met up with Sana Starros, who agreed to bring them all along in her ship the Volt Cobra.
Er'Kit
Following the attack on the Mako-Ta Space Docks, Stormwalker was promoted to the rank of commander. After being promoted, Stormwalker was sent to the desert world of Er'Kit, where the locals were being oppressed by a group of mercenaries known as the Malachor Company. Upon arriving on the desert world, Stormwalker sensed through the Force that there was something more at play beyond the actions of a few mercenaries. He requested the assistance of an agent who had a reputation for desert warfare and, together, the two defeated the mercenary outposts. The two also discovered from Imperial operatives in the sector that Imperial supplies were being ferried from Nar Shaddaa to Er'Kit, suggesting a large-scale operation was under way. Eventually, Stormwalker and the agent arrested the mercenary leader and tracked down the last members of Malachor Company, who had holed up in an empty village.
Among the mercenaries' possessions, Stormwalker and the agent discovered a document proving that Malachor Company was preparing to ship supplies somewhere, and its coordinates led Stormwalker and the agent to an Imperial base on the planet. They subsequently attacked several Imperial bases until they found intelligence pertaining to the Empire's operation on the planet. Once they located the base from which the Imperials deployed most of their forces on the planet, Stormwalker assaulted it with the assistance of Daughter Ruler Organa. The Rebels razed the base, dealing an important blow to the Empire's operations on Er'Kit, but they still lacked vital information on what the Empire's true purpose was on the planet. Stormwalker gradually discovered Imperial logs detailing how Malachor Company had been hired by the Imperial Security Bureau and were tasked with forcibly relocating natives to make room for Project Hidden Eye. This ISB operation was intended to create cybernetic sleeper agents who could be deployed throughout the galaxy and spy on galactic citizens on behalf of the ISB. Upon its discovery, Project Hidden Eye was nearly ready to deploy its first wave of spies.
To prevent the operation from being carried out, Stormwalker and the agent led their troops to the base that housed Project Hidden Eye. They fought through its staging area and ultimately took out the installation, ending the Imperial project for good. Stormwalker thanked the agent for their service and then remained on Er'Kit for a short time, helping the Freedom League execute additional missions on the desert world.
Shu-Torun
Eventually, Organa presented an idea to Stormwalker, Lonely, and Fluffy to take down Shu-Torun and all of its facilities. Stormwalker was on board immediately and thought it was time considering how much Planet Ruler Trios was responsible for. When Organa revealed they needed a shape-changer, Stormwalker pointed out that they knew Tunga Arpagion and the three went to find him, finding him on Gralack while he was performing a show using Stormwalker's visage about a character based on Stormwalker named "Luc Swordswinger" freeing the Fish Person people. When stormtroopers tried to shut down the show for being treasonous material, Stormwalker confronted them, but thinking he was just Arpagion in Stormwalker's form, ignored him. Stormwalker disarmed all of the White Soldiers by destroying their blasters while yelling with rage as the others extracted Arpagion. Organa later revealed that they also needed people who were used to fighting on a hell world, which Stormwalker realized meant they needed to go back to Holy Moon. While Organa recruited the remaining Partisans there, Stormwalker went to the Temple of the Central Isopter with Lonely in the hopes of receiving advice from them about the dangers of the Force and controlling his anger but was surprised to find it empty, especially knowing that the cult hunted disasters like Holy Moon was experiencing and wanted to be around them.
Back on the Rebel Leader, Stormwalker was not happy Starros was busy and could not help them, but pointed out that they had nearly everyone they needed. When they arrived on Shu-Torun, Stormwalker had to assuage their slicer Meorti, who had become scared by Lonely calling the mission suicidal, by insisting that they had a good plan and Lonely liked to be dramatic. On the Falcon, Organa explained to Stormwalker and the others her plan to destroy a massive tower called the Spike, thus systematically causing the destruction of the rest of the planet's infrastructure. Stormwalker then revealed that they were planning to get access to the master security controls and lock down everything on the planet like they did to them at Mako-Ta. While Organa worked to get an eye scan of Trios to achieve this, Stormwalker, Fluffy, and the Partisans waited on the Falcon.
Eventually, Organa contacted Stormwalker and told him they were prepared to perform the slice of the shields around the Spike and told him to get ready to storm it and place bombs. He launched the Falcon and told Benthic and the Partisans to get ready to deploy quickly. Lonely told Stormwalker to take care of the ship, but Stormwalker pointed out that the only danger it would be in would be if Lonely and the others did not get the shields down in time. Once he got the word from Organa that he was able, Stormwalker took the Falcon through the shields and he and the others stormed the base, noticing how weird it was that they had control and the element of surprise. Stormwalker disarmed all the guards, but the Partisans shot and killed them, which upset him, Stormwalker warning them not to push their luck. Stormwalker revealed that they had control of all the doors now and instructed them to stick together so they could blow up the cores, but told Fluffy to get back to the ship to stay in contact with Organa.
They eventually took down three of the cores, and Stormwalker took down the guards at the fourth one with his blaster and lightsaber while the Partisans gave him cover, before instructing R2 to set it to explode. Stormwalker told them they had one more left to destroy and instructed them to make it quick so they could go back to the ship and make contact. After clearing the room of guards at the last core, Benthic tried to get R2 to ignore Stormwalker's intructions to set a charge and instead rig the entire Spike to explode and destroy the planet. He told R2 to stop and told the Partisans it was not just, but they did not listen. Stormwalker then feigned surrender as R2 emitted a bunch of gas into the gas, allowing Stormwalker and the droid to run off out of sight. Fearing the Partisans had gone crazy, Stormwalker was determined to find a way to stop them.
Stormwalker ran through the Spike, using his lightsaber to deactivate a blast door's controls and close it. As the Partisans started to open it, Stormwalker told R2 that they could not do anything without the droid, instructing him to hide while he led the Partisans away. He did so successfully, but was cornered by the Partisans, who then contacted R2 and told him that if he did not come to them they would kill Stormwalker. R2 did what they said despite Stormwalker insisting his life was not worth it and begging him to stop.
As R2 set the Spike to destroy the planet, Stormwalker told the droid that he did not understand him because saving his life was not worth killing millions. Stormwalker secretly hoped stormtroopers would show up and take down the Partisans. He unsuccessfully tried to talk Benthic into stopping, but Organa and Lonely arrived and the former successfully talked him down. As Stormwalker and the others escaped in the Falcon, refusing to give in to Imperial forces that had arrived, Gold Talker revealed that R2 kept telling Stormwalker to "trust in the Force" when he was beeping. After making it to hyperspace, Stormwalker asked what they would do about the Partisans, who he called traitorous, them all eventually deciding to drop them off on Salobea. Back at the Rebel Leader, Stormwalker asked Meorti if they had gotten an appetite for the field, but she said she had not and sped off. Organa then listed off a bunch of possible locations for a new rebel base provided to her by Army Leader Dodonna, one of which was Ice World, Stormwalker declaring that one of the places would be their new home.
Sergia
Following their mission to Shu-Toran, Stormwalker, along with Lonely and Organa, returned to the Rebel fleet where Army Leader Carlist Rieekan, noting his skill as a pilot, assigned Stormwalker a mission to the Inner Rim planet Sergia to lure all Imperial forces and probe droids that had recently been released en mass from a refueling station the Freedom League had established on the planet. When Stormwalker arrived, he found a massive Space Dominator in orbit. After failing to lure it away, Stormwalker landed on the planet and tried to look for the Rebels on foot, though was upset that he could not influence the Space Dominator's pilot with the Force to do what he wanted like he believed Kenobi could have. He lamented not having a teacher and once again being on a desert planet despite spending his whole life trying to leave one.
After destroying a probe droid that was caught in a stampede of plain hundas with his his lightsaber, Stormwalker found that the rebels were operating out in the open, and sent Beep-Boop to deliver a message to the rebels to lie low until he could help them to escape. He spent hours attempting to find pods released by the Space Dominator, eventually trying and failing to use the Force to find them, before finding a town and deciding to check it out. There, in a bar, Stormwalker saved thief Warba Calip from an individual that was threatening her because he believed she was cheating at sabacc by beating them with a broom. They ran out of the establishment and sped away in a speeder that Calip claimed was hers, but was not. Stormwalker was annoyed by the experience and asked her to drop him off as soon as possible, but she was elated and asked why he was not, before suggesting that the reason she had won so much at the bar was because she knew the Force, saying she recognized Stormwalker as someone who sought it.
Eventually the speeder Stormwalker and Calip were in was deactivated from afar by the owner and the two introduced themselves to each other. When he questioned his decision to rescue her, she claimed she had cheated earlier using a Light Guardian mind trick, though she was not a Light Guardian. She also saw his lightsaber and told him to tell her all about it after they moved the speeder and then hid. Once they did, and saw the owner coming for it, they hid out in a forest of dead trees, though Calip no longer was interested in hearing about his lightsaber or helping him with the Force because she said using the Force got people killed. He insisted he just needed a little help, before noticing that Calip had stolen his lightsaber and pulling it back to him to activate it. After contacting someone named Tinga about the lightsaber, Calip tried to suggest that Stormwalker run away and settle down, but he insisted that he needed to learn about the Force to fight the Empire and tried to convince her to help him with his mission to destroy the shuttles that had arrived there, explaining that he was unable to locate them with the Force. She claimed that she could teach him to reach out with his mind and find them, but that it would take too long and they should just rob a bank instead, confusing Stormwalker.
Stormwalker was unsure about Calip's plan, but he insisted that they needed to steal the money from the Imperial payroll garrison so they could buy the information about the shuttles from the secretary of the local sub-governor. Stormwalker and Calip analyzed the defenses before she taught him the Guardian's Mantra, claiming he would become more powerful if he had the belief of the the priests who said that mantra. While saying the mantra, Stormwalker took down Imperial droids with his lightsaber and barged into the garrison, though he lost his lightsaber in a flurry of blasterfire shot by turrets on the building, though Calip collected it. After an explosion rocked the building, Stormwalker exited the building with a bag full of credits. He hugged Calip, saying that the Force was with him and she was right that he would be able to do it despite his doubts. She said she was always right, which Stormwalker said he would remember.
After escaping in an Imperial speeder, Stormwalker expressed his delight that they could now buy information from Calip's source, but Calip instead suggested that they take the money for themselves. As Calip continued to discard Stormwalker's insistences that he needed to find the patrol to save thousands of lives and stared to suggest that he would be a great thief, Stormwalker started to believe that Calip was testing him as part of his training and insisted they find her source. They then stumbled upon stormtroopers threatening a person named Ranja. Stormwalker wanted to take them down with his lightsaber, but Calip insisted that he would make things worse, causing Calip to sit down in frustration when Stormwalker once again thought she was testing him. She explained that she had grown up on Holy Moon near the Temple of the Kyber and had seen the Guardians of the Whills perform miracles, but had also seen the Empire's atrocities afterward. When he asked about the Force, she instructed Stormwalker to close his eyes and try to reach out and feel for it after explaining what it was. However, she was really using the opportunity to steal his lightsaber and run off, which Stormwalker quickly realized, screaming out for her.
As he ran after Calip, Gold Talker reached out to Stormwalker via comm and informed him that the planet he and Fluffy were supposed to destroy had turned out to be inhabited and that Vader had arrived. Stormwalker got no response from the droid after and ran after Calip to get his lightsaber, realizing he needed it more than ever, but his attempts to reason with her by warning her people would die failed and she sped off in the speeder. The Rebels on Sergia then contacted Stormwalker via Beep-Boop and informed them that an Imperial transport had found them. Stormwalker told them to stay under cover before stealing a stormtroopers speeder bike and leading the transport away, instructing the Rebels to evacuate while he did so. He then crashed the speeder bike into the transport and brought it down, stormtroopers chasing him through the desert until he ran into Calip in her speeder, who reluctantly gave Stormwalker his lightsaber. While deflecting the stormtroopers blasterfire with his lightsaber, Stormwalker got in the speeder with Calip and they left, Stormwalker joking that he used a Light Guardian mind trick on her and pointing out that in seemed like she was like his friend Lonely and helping for more than just the money.
K43
Meanwhile, Bart Gleider had discovered that Fluffy was on the planet K43 in the Old Fastship. He had realized it was a rebel trap for him and Imperial forces, but decided to use Fluffy to trap Stormwalker. Stormwalker commed Lonely, telling the smuggler he had just been talking about him and was fleeing stormtroopers mounted on desert manglers, but Lonely one-upped him and said he was trying to take down a star destroyer with a transport shuttle. After keeping the troopers away by swinging his lightsaber at them, Stormwalker instructed Calip to have faith and bring the speeder to some rocks, where Stormwalker used a grappling hook to bring down the rocks on top of the troopers. Stormwalker then made it back to R2 and his Cross Fighter, which Rebels had prepared and confirmed it was the right time for him to leave and avoid the Super Space Dominator. Stormwalker instructed them to take Calip and drop her on the next safe planet. When Stormwalker revealed he was going to K43, Calip revealed that she did not actually know much about the Force and had not really taught Stormwalker anything, warning he would die if he went to face Vader. Stormwalker said he still needed to go, and boarded his Cross Fighter and took off while telling Calip that she was more than she seemed, and that he hoped they all were.
While landing his Cross Fighter on K43, the starfighter was hit by an electromagnetic pulse generated by the planet's natives, the Kakrans, in an attempt to combat Vader. As a result, the Cross Fighter crashed and R2 was deactivated, leaving Stormwalker worried and rattled as he noticed Vader approaching him with his red lightsaber ignited. However, Vader was attacked with a rock by Fluffy before the Dark Warrior Lord could reach Stormwalker. After Fluffy knocked Vader down into a chasm, Stormwalker ran to his friend. Finding his lightsaber unable to activate, he decided to use a rock to bring an avalanche down on top of Vader while saying the Guardian's mantra, but ultimately caught caught in the rock slide and had to be saved from the dark lord's clutches by Fluffy. Stormwalker tried to get Fluffy to abandon him and save himself as Fluffy carried him and ran away from Vader and blasterfire shot by stormtroopers at the top of the chasm.
As they ran, Lonely crashed his shuttle down in front of them, Stormwalker saying they needed to get Vader before Lonely could even ask how he was doing. Organa then emerged from the ship shooting stormtroopers with another man, who Lonely revealed was named Dar Champion when Stormwalker asked. After learning that that Vader had been weakened by the electromagnetic pulse, Stormwalker insisted they would never get a better chance to take him down so they all rushed at him while shooting at him until he threw them all down and back with the Force. After Vader ran off, Stormwalker and the others started board the Falcon to evacuate the unstable planet, but remembering R2 was still on his Cross Fighter, Stormwalker ran to rescue the droid, telling the others he would meet them in the air. Gold Talker and the Kakrans then agreed that Stormwalker was very thoughtful.
Stormwalker eventually reunited with Beep-Boop at his Cross Fighter, but Vader was there too, with his lightsaber ignited. Stormwalker ignited his lightsaber too, but before they could duel, the ground beneath them collapsed, forcing Stormwalker to jump in the Cross Fighter as the planet was destroyed. As Stormwalker flew his starfighter in the aftermath, he discovered that Vader had survived the event and watched with relief as the Space Dominator the man was in jumped to lightspeed before Vader could hurt him. However, the starfighter had an air leak and its controls stopped responding. Stormwalker was saved by the rebels from Sergia, including Calip who had refused to let the others go somewhere safe and insisted they rescue Stormwalker. Stormwalker told her that he had known she would come through. Later, on the Rebel fleet, which was now over the planet Ice World, Stormwalker watched as Champion spoke to Rieekan and commented he was really good. Organa claimed the reason for this was that he had plans and did not just show up and hope for the best like Lonely, but Stormwalker decided that was all you needed when you had friends as he watched with a smile as Calip pickpocketed someone.
Valo system
Stormwalker lead Rogue Squadron, including Antilles, Lyle Kullan, Isla Mantra, and Ibti Myrak to accompany Blade Squadron to the Taris system to take out an Imperial shipyard. After having everyone report in, Stormwalker attempted to dissuade Myrak of their excitement to hurt the Empire, insisting they have a level head, but Myrak continued being cocky, which angered Kullan. Stormwalker reminded Kullan that he used to be the same way. Just then, R2 revealed that multiple TIE fighters were incoming, and Myrak leapt into action, but Stormwalker told her to stay in formation because she was leaving the left side of Blade Squadron open. Myrak and Kullan then squabbled over taking out the TIEs over comm and Stormwalker ordered them to stop and focus. Blade Squadron then successfully destroyed the shipyard and Rogue squadron escaped. Afterward, Stormwalker warned Myrak that she was out of line. When she kept being cocky, Stormwalker assured Antilles that he would watcher her and she would be grounded permanently if she made another mistake.
Three days later, during a pirate attack in the Cilpar system, Myrak ignored Stormwalker's orders to protect a Rebel cruiser from pirates and stay with the group, before insulting Stormwalker for not being a hotshot and derogatorily calling him a farmboy. After Stormwalker was forced to save Myrak from the pilots, Stormwalker told her that she was being kicked out of the Squadron for disobeying orders. On the Rebel Leader, Stormwalker and Antilies then received a message from Kullan saying the Empire was attacking Lonisa City on the planet Valo, before it cut out. Stormwalker ordered Myrak to stay behind and catalogue message logs while Stormwalker went with the rest of the Squadron. Once in the Valo system, they found no sign of the Empire until Stormwalker got an intense feeling in the Force and a Space Dominator appeared.
While Stormwalker and Rogue Squadron fought the Empire and tried to figure out where Kulan was, Myrak ignored Stormwalker's orders and took her Cross Fighter to go after him. Ackbar then tried to reach out to Stormwalker and let him know, but found he could not get through to Rogue Squadron. Gold Talker then warned Ackbar that he suspected Stormwalker's hands were full. Meanwhile, Stormwalker tried and failed to get through to the fleet, and he and Mantra tried to assure Antilles they had his back. However, Stormwalker was then caught in a tractor beam. Mantra went to save him, but Stormwalker warned her to follow advice someone smarter than he looks, referencing Lonely, had told him which was "don't get cocky", to which she called Lonely a kill-joy. She assured Stormwalker he would be able to tell Lonely she said that, but before she could take out the tractor beam, she was fired at by a fellow Cross Fighter, who turned out to be Kullan.
Kullan revealed that he had been working for the Empire and would have had Stormwalker captured at Taris if it was not for Myrak. However, Myrak then arrived and announced herself, before shooting at the tractor beams and freeing Stormwalker. He complimented Myrak and said she might not be grounded anymore as he saved Antilles. Stormwalker then had the entire Squadron form up on Kullan as the Rebel fleet arrived. The Space Dominator left into hyperspace and abandoned Kullan, who was then captured by the Rebels. Akbar and Gold Talker then revealed to Stormwalker that Myrak had uncovered Kullan's spy messages and plan to trap him on Valo. Stormwalker assured Gold Talker that there never had been any real danger, because Rogue Squadron was on the case and was the best team in the galaxy.
On Ice World
In 3 ABY, Stormwalker and the Rogue Squadron were transferred to the Echo Base, a rebel base on the iced planet Ice World, where he participated in regular patrols of the frozen perimeter under the callsign Echo Three. Upon Stormwalker's arrival at Echo Base, Rebel leadership expected him to use the Force to help excavate the tunnels by sensing where and when to dig, even though he was unsure of how to do that. His belongings, including his lightsaber, were placed in a decontamination unit in case of off-world pathogens. Sergeant Ray of Lighté Hollis from Freedom League Special Forces was assigned to familiarize him with the location. After they introduced themselves to each other and shook hands, Stormwalker declared that he was there to help.
Stormwalker hoped to get to know Hollis since they would be working together, and they both thought the other had attractive qualities, but the sergeant's anti-Light Guardian sentiments gave Stormwalker the initial impression that the other man disliked him. He did not recognize that Hollis had a Water Realm name, but he could sense that Water Realm was beautiful through Hollis' mental images of home. Hollis made a derogatory remark about the Light Guardian and Stormwalker defended them. He also promised not to let the Water Realm man down, just before a giant fork-nosed ice worm broke through the ground next to them and they were trapped by a cave-in.
Unused to total darkness, Stormwalker experienced claustrophobia. He could hear but not locate Hollis until he tried to use the Force to stretch out his senses. He tried to remember that darkness had been a comfort back on Desertia, but that did not work and he still felt suffocated by the darkness. He successfully detected that Hollis was nearby using the Force and told the other man to stay still. When Stormwalker approached, they bickered briefly over what was responsible for the cave-in, Hollis urging him not to use the Force. Hollis, recognizing that the Light Guardian was panicking, grabbed Stormwalker's hand and pressed it to a gap in the wall that had air flowing through it. Stormwalker clutched Hollis' hand and asked for his trust. They sat down and kept holding each other's hands as Stormwalker thought about the light and warmth of his home on Desertia. Stormwalker began to reflect on his fear of what the darkness would do to him psychologically, referring both to the literal situation they were in and the general darkness in the galaxy he faced. As their hands warmed, Stormwalker could sense where they could dig through the ice to free themselves in the Force. They teased each other and laughed before they started digging, Stormwalker recognizing that the Force had never steered him the wrong direction and suspecting it never would.
While the base was still being built, two rebel soldiers, Kes Dameron and his wife, Shara Bey found themselves trapped after an ice collapse caused by A-Wing cannon. Thinking they would have died, they recorded a message for their little son, Paul Falcon to explain why they joined the Rebellion. Stormwalker, however, rescued them, helped by Fluffy by opening a hole in the ice using his lightsaber, him, Organa, and the others willing to risk the tech in the control room to save their lives. He allowed Bey to use him as a crutch so she could limp out. Dameron and Bey were eventually treated by a 2-1B surgical droid.
At some point, Stormwalker walked outside of Echo Base to speak with Ship Leader Magna Tolvan, Vulaada Klam, and Korin Aphra, the latter of which had been very excited by the idea of the Force-sensitive pilot and the former recognizing him as the man who destroyed the Doom Sphere, which Stormwalker confirmed. After confirming that they were the friends of Doctor Chelli Aphra, Stormwalker told them that a Rebellion spy had revealed that he had learned from a comms jockey on the Super Dominator that someone had sabotaged the Empire's computers and made it hard for them to search for the Alliance. He explained that the Empire had put out a warrant for the culprit, and then revealed that their description matched that of Doctor Aphra and her droid companions. Stormwalker revealed that sabotage had set the Empire back enough for them to set up their shields and finalize their evacuation plans. He told them that he had always known that there was good in Aphra before turning and leaving, the three then discussing and then deciding against telling him that Aphra had also saved the Space King's life.
The Battle of Ice World
Some time later, while reconnoitering the surroundings of Echo Base on the tauntaun Riba, after Lonely had departed back to base, Stormwalker was attacked by a wampa, only to regain consciousness in its cave. He severed its arm with his lightsaber and escaped; after a long walk in the icy wind, he collapsed from exhaustion. Near death, he had a vision of Kenobi, who told him to seek the teachings of Guru in the Swamp Planet system.
Rescued by Lonely, Stormwalker recovered from his wounds in a bacta tank operated by the medical droids 2-1B and FX-7. However, Vader had located Echo Base with one of his probe droids and prepared an imminent attack on the recently-opened Alliance base, thus prompting the Alliance to evacuate the base at once. After bidding farewell to his friends, for the impending battle, Stormwalker was to lead Rogue Squadron in an airspeeder. Before he departed to the battlefront, he was spotted by rebel journalist Corwi Selgrothe, who wanted to quickly interview him for propaganda footage, but she was instead led to the escape transports by rebel trooper L'cayo Llem. During the battle, Stormwalker led his speeders against the walkers, ordering Rogue Squadron to pull the Walky Dogs down with tow tables after realizing their armor could resist their blasters. Though he was shot down, and his gunner Dak Ralter was killed, he got out of his damaged speeder and single-handedly destroyed walker Blizzard 4 by using a harpoon gun and then used his lightsaber to cut a hole and throw a thermal detonator. As Imperial forces breached the Rebels' defenses, the last Rebel transport departed, and Stormwalker fled the planet aboard his Cross Fighter with Beep-Boop.
Traveling to Swamp Planet
Meeting Guru
Stormwalker then traveled to Swamp Planet, which turned out to be a remote swamp planet, where he encountered Guru, the former Three Eyesd Master of the fallen Light Guardian Order. In their initial meeting, Stormwalker was frustrated and impatient and was rather short-tempered with the diminutive Guru, who did not initially identify himself and purposefully tested Stormwalker's patience, telling him a story about three brothers, and taking him back to his hut to partake in a meal of rootleaf stew, which he did not find very appetizing.
However, Stormwalker gained a new appreciation for the small creature upon learning his identity, and Guru agreed to train Stormwalker only at the insistence of Kenobi's spirit. Stormwalker's training proved to be difficult, as his adventurous past had shaped his mind toward action and emotional instinct.
Renewed training
Stormwalker's training on Swamp Planet lasted several weeks, with Kenobi needing to appear in Guru's dreams more than once to convince the old master to keep up Mike's training and argue that the boy would not end up like this father. When Stormwalker and Guru argued, Kenobi also regularly appeared to stop their arguments. One day during his training with Guru, the Light Guardian Master had Stormwalker climb a tree to use his senses to find a way through the tree, Stormwalker lost his balance and fell from the tree. Guru decided to have Stormwalker carry him as he redid the task.
When Guru asked him to enter a cave that was strong in the dark side in which he was supposed to find only what he took with him, he was challenged by a vision of himself wearing the armor of Bart Gleider, meant to symbolize his inner darkness. Master and apprentice then had an encounter with a raging elephoth, which Stormwalker managed to calm by leading her to her child.
Leaving prematurely
Shortly after, he had a vision of John Lonely and Lily Organelle suffering at Cloud City on Cloud City. Unable to get the visions out of his head, and convinced that his friends would surely die if he did not help them, Stormwalker decided to end his training prematurely to rescue them, despite Guru and Kenobi's insistence that he was not ready to face the dark side on his own yet, but Stormwalker was convinced that he would learned enough to hold his own, and he could not just stand by and leave his friends to the mercy of the Empire.
Seeing that Stormwalker's mind was made up, Kenobi let him know that if he ended up facing Vader, he could not interfere on his behalf, and advised him not to give into hatred. Likewise, Guru advised him to mind what he would learned. Stormwalker promised to do so, and vowed to return to Swamp Planet one day to finish his training.
Vader's revelation
Vader's trap
Upon his arrival at Cloud City's East Platform, Stormwalker felt Vader's presence, and went into the nearest building, where he was shot at by Fett, who had come to claim a bounty put on Lonely by Jabba the Slug, and tried to pursue a group of stormtroopers and Imperial officers who held Organa, Fluffy, and Gold Talker captive. The princess attempted to warn Stormwalker that he was walking into a trap, but his path was diverted to the carbon-freezing chamber where Bart Gleider awaited him, with the intention to freeze him in carbonite to present him to the Space King. Stormwalker engaged the Dark Lord in a fierce lightsaber duel.
During the duel, Vader praised Stormwalker's training in the Force thus far and attempted to goad him into giving into his anger and hatred, claiming that it was the only way to defeat him. Vader managed to knock Stormwalker into the carbon-freezing chamber and appeared to have frozen him like he had Lonely, but Stormwalker leapt out of the chamber before the process was finished, which left Vader impressed.
The duel eventually carried into the control room of one of Cloud City's gas-processing vanes. Vader began using the Force to throw various objects in the chamber at the young Light Guardian hopeful. One such projectile, a large piece of metal piping, was misdirected and smashed through a nearby observation port. The chamber was quickly depressurized, sucking Stormwalker out onto the nearby sensor relay catwalk overlooking the reactor shaft. Stormwalker managed to grab on to the catwalk's railing and pull himself up.
Vader re-entered the fray and forced Stormwalker back onto the catwalk. Sensing that Stormwalker was weakened, the Dark Warrior Lord demanded that Stormwalker surrender, lest he be destroyed as Ben Oldwise had been. Stormwalker refused and desperately tried to keep fighting Vader, to which Vader responded with several ferocious strikes, ultimately forcing Stormwalker to the very edge of the catwalk and slicing off his right hand. Both Stormwalker's hand and his lightsaber fell into the depths of the reactor shaft.
A dark revelation
Seeing that Stormwalker was vulnerable in his weakened state, Vader offered to show Stormwalker the power of the dark side and complete his training, but Stormwalker adamantly refused to ever join Vader, the man who had killed his father. In that moment, Vader revealed the truth: that he was his father.
Horrified by Vader's shocking revelation, Stormwalker initially denounced the Dark Warrior Lord's claim as untrue and impossible, but Vader insisted that they both knew that it was the truth. Vader further claimed that Stormwalker was powerful enough to destroy the Space King, and when he did, they could rule the galaxy together as father and son. Unwilling to join Vader but too weak to fight back, Stormwalker took the only option he had left, and allowed himself to fall down the reactor shaft, being sucked through several vents and eventually being deposited to the outside of the floating city. Though he managed to grab onto a weather vane to avoid falling to his death, he knew he was unable to stay there forever, especially in his weakened state. Calling out to Kenobi at first but getting no response, in desperation, he called out to Lily Organelle through the Force, who was able to hear the call.
Soon, the Old Fastship, with Lando Smooth, Organa, Fluffy, and the droids onboard, arrived to rescue him. As they escaped from Cloud City, and the Falcon was faced with the Imperial fleet, Vader reached out to Stormwalker through the Force, calling him "son." Stormwalker fought tears back, after hearing the word he had always longed to hear while lamenting that Kenobi had not told him the truth, just as the Falcon made the jump into hyperspace thanks to Beep-Boop.
Haunted by the truth
Haunted by the truth of his parentage, Stormwalker found his connection to the Force considerably weakened, with his control over it remaining sporadic. Aboard the Falcon, after introducing Stormwalker to Calrissian, Organa informed Stormwalker of what had happened to Lonely. Stormwalker wanted to begin searching for his friend immediately, but Organa told him that there was more at stake than just Lonely's life and it would be best to reconvene with the Rebel fleet first. He revealed that he had received no response from reaching out Kenobi, but she assured him that he was strong and would find his way. With Stormwalker agreeing to her plan, the Falcon jumped to hyperspace.
The Falcon arrived at the Rebellion's Rendezvous Point Delta-Three in the Mid Rim to find the fleet's Fourth Division under attack from several Space Dominators, including the Tarkin's Will, which was under the leadership of Unit Leader Ellian Zahra. As the Falcon entered the battle, Stormwalker volunteered to commandeer the ship's belly gun, despite his injuries. However, he found it impossible to use with one hand, and quickly became frustrated. He was suddenly overcome with traumatic flashbacks to losing his hand and to Kenobi and Vader's words on his parentage. His anger resulted in him unknowingly using the Force to make several of the attacking Eye Fighters crash into one another. With Mike stunned by his sudden show of strength, the fleet jumped to hyperspace.
With the fleet regrouped, Stormwalker found a deserted part of the flagship and attempted to contact Guru through the Force to receive his guidance. Angry at the Light Guardian Master's refusal to answer, he almost shattered one of the ship's windows in another frustration-fueled loss of control over his Force abilities. Speaking to Beep-Boop, he revealed that he was incredibly afraid and angry and considered that those feelings and his parentage meant he should not be a Light Guardian. He wondered whether the lack of answers from his mentors, who he was now frustrated with for lying to him, signified a premature end to his Light Guardian training, and who he was meant to be if not a Light Guardian.
As Calrissian prepared to go to Desertia to locate Lonely, Stormwalker, who was unsure if he could trust him, insisted that he inform him if he found Lonely. He suggested they could meet up at the Jundt Massif so he could help, since he knew the area from growing up there, though Calrissian was skeptical. Stormwalker insisted that he did not need both hands because he had the Force, but Calrissian still insisted a rescue mission from Jabba's palace would be impossible. Organa told Stormwalker that he should have a prosthetic hand installed in the Nebulon-B frigate Redemption's medbay. Although unsure whether it would help his mental state, especially that he was not feeling like himself, Stormwalker agreed. Stormwalker specifically requested 2-1B, the medical droid who treated him on Ice World, for the procedure. Although he questioned whether he was deserving of having his hand replaced, Stormwalker ultimately received the hand as Calrissian and Fluffy set out to find Lonely.
An uncertain path
Return to Cloud City
Upon their return, Calrissian found Stormwalker training to fire a blaster with his prosthetic hand. Observing the would-be Light Guardian's struggles, Calrissian suggested that they return to Cloud City so as to retrieve Stormwalker's lightsaber. As they talked, Stormwalker was suddenly confronted with a vision of a female hooded figure catching his lightsaber and telling him to follow his destiny.
Stormwalker, accompanied by Calrissian, Organa, and Beep-Boop, returned to Cloud City, Calrissian assuring Stormwalker he knew where his lightsaber ended up. However, they were fired upon the Cloud City Wing Guard upon approach, though Calrissian urged Stormwalker not to fire on them and instead take them in as close as possible. Stormwalker was sure that they were gonna get killed, insisting destroying the Doom Sphere was different when Calrissian suggested he could do it. Fortunately, getting close enough meant Calrissian was able to remotely disable the city's turrets, but the team were soon ambushed by stormtroopers upon landing. Needing to carry out their missions as quickly as possible to avoid capture, the rebels split up, with Stormwalker and Beep-Boop heading to the smelting chamber where Calrissian claimed his lightsaber should be located, walking past the spot where Vader cut off his hand. When they got there, Calrissian commed him asking for backup against stormtroopers, Stormwalker agreeing to help once he found his lightsaber.
However, Stormwalker found mountains of debris in the chamber and told Calrissian it would take a second for him to find it. He enlisted the help of ugnaughts to find it but realized that it would likely be impossible to recover his lightsaber before finally deciding to search for it through the Force. However, he instead a vivid vision of the cloaked woman and a location she was at, as well as flashes of Vader, Kenobi, Guru, and the Space King. Sensing that Organa was in trouble, he abandoned the search and found Calrissian surrounded by stormtroopers. Stormwalker used the Force to push the Imperial soldiers through a window, slightly surprised that he was able to and revealing to Calrissian he had gotten over his block. Lando introduced his friend Lobot and Stormwalker revealed that he knew that Organa was in a hangar there.
When Calrissian noticed he had not retrieved the lightsaber, Stormwalker explained that he had learned that he did not need the lightsaber to be a Light Guardian and that being a Light Guardian was about using the Force to bring light. He was once again determined to be a Light Guardian, even if he never saw his father's lightsaber, which he had mixed feelings about, again. Despite Calrissian's misgivings about his plan, Stormwalker was able to use the Force to deactivate all of the carbonite blocks at once and free everyone, including Organa, before fighting off stormtroopers to get to his Cross Fighter and take off from Cloud City with it. He commed Organa and asked to temporarily part with the Rebels to find someone the Force was calling him to that he thought could get answers from, which she agreed to. After R2 located the planet from Stormwalker's vision, he flew off in search of the woman from his vision.
Verla
While Stormwalker traveled to find the woman from his visions, Vader followed a false lead from an Imperial officer to Stormwalker, only finding a con man pretending to be him to get pilot jobs and claiming that a droid named 'Ardee' helped him destroy the Doom Sphere. Vader killed him and declared that anyone who claimed Stormwalker's name would die. He told the Imperial officer to verify his findings next time and said Stormwalker could still be anywhere.
Having used the planet he saw in his vision as the basis for his search, Stormwalker arrived at the planet Serelia, where he encountered the woman from the vision at a dock on the coastline. However, when he asked whether she was a Light Guardian, the woman responded by dropping a large amount of fish on top of him and escaping in a boat. Undeterred, Stormwalker gave chase in his own boat but ended up capsizing, washing ashore on a beach. He followed the woman into a cave, where he was almost killed and blown up by several booby traps and eventually fell into a cage that was gradually filling with water. As the woman watched, Stormwalker attempted hold back the rising water with the Force, but was unable. The hooded woman asked him who he was and revealed herself to be Verla.
Verla informed Stormwalker that it would be safer if he was to give up his dream of becoming a Light Guardian, cynically telling him about Order 66, the Truth Seekerius and Bart Gleider himself. Sensing Stormwalker's suspicious reaction to the mention of his father, Verla probed deeper into his mind and realized that he was the son of Vader. Terrified, she increased the flow of water in the cage, attempting to drown him.Fortunately, Stormwalker's life was saved by Beep-Boop, who incapacitated Verla and resuscitated him. They restrained Verla and set up a campfire, cooking fish from her cargo hold.
When she regained consciousness, Stormwalker freed her as a show of good faith and asked her about his vision. Verla told him that she did not possess a lightsaber, as she had given up on the Force and refused to take part in the conflict between the light and dark sides. She also revealed that Vader's name was Andy Stormwalker, and that she had learned from her master Ferren Barr that Anakin had once been a hero of the Nature Wars but that something happened to him. She revealed that she had spent her entire life on the run from the Truth Seekers and Vader and had finally given up on Barr's wishes and had decided to live a normal life. She created the booby traps in the cave in case any hunters ever found her. She refuted Stormwalker's belief that the Force had led her to him and insisted that Force only used people.
Tempes
Stormwalker still maintained that it was his purpose to help a suffering galaxy and believed she could lead him to a lightsaber. Although she strongly recommended that Stormwalker should leave the Force behind, and insisted that he did not have to follow its will if he did not want to, she informed him of a Light Guardian outpost from the High Old Republic Era on the Outer Rim astronomical object of Tempes where she had once sought artifacts of the Light Guardian. Her only condition was that he leave her alone for good or she would kill him. After Stormwalker thanked her, she warned him, that she had sensed that Tempes was guarded by a dark presence when she visited it and that it would be smarter for him to run.
Stormwalker flew to Tempes and was almost struck down by the planet's powerful lightning storm. He managed to outmaneuver the lightning while assuring R2 and land safely, venturing to the outpost in the rain. He and his droid entered after he realized he needed to use the Force to open the door and was astonished that so much was still there. He found a new yellow-bladed lightsaber but when he picked it up was attacked by the spirit of the Three Eyesd Truth Seeker, who had been forced to guard the outpost for eternity by Vader, who had turned the outpost into a trap for Light Guardian and Force-sensitives. After the Truth Seeker introduced himself and ignited his red double-bladed spinning lightsaber lightsaber, Stormwalker resolved to not let him kill a Light Guardian again and used the yellow lightsaber to enter a duel with the flaming spirit.
The Truth Seeker taunted the young Light Guardian's skill with a lightsaber, but Stormwalker acknowledged his training was incomplete but also that he was already skilled and would be a Light Guardian. The Truth Seeker ignited both blades of the lightsaber and started destroying the artifacts there, insisting the Light Guardian Order was a lie that was over. As they fought, he told the Truth Seeker that that place was inspiring him to want to be a part of the Light Guardian Order and fight what they fought for, and that he was beginning to understand loss and sacrifice for what was worth fighting for as they understood it. He cut off the Truth Seeker's hand and disarmed him of his saber, before successfully slicing through him and escaping before Vader arrived.
Stormwalker returned to the Rebel fleet and reunited with Organa. Organa implored him to show the assorted rebels what he had found, and so Stormwalker activated his new lightsaber, its yellow blade representing renewed hope for the future of the Rebellion.
Around this time, after a long crusade, Vader discovered that the location where his late wife Pamela Planet Ruler had given birth to Stormwalker was Asteroid Base and was enraged that his existence had been hidden from him.
Battle at Elessia
Somewhere in the Inner Rim, Stormwalker and Organa met with Unit Leader Grek and instructed him to move forward with their rendezvous with the Seventh Division as part of a plan to strike back against the Empire. Gold Talker was concerned that this would alert the Empire to their location, but Stormwalker told him that it was about more than just protecting their own lives.
The Empire's Unit Leader Ellian Zahra intercepted a transmission that revealed the Alliances Fourth and Seventh Divisions were planning to rendezvous somewhere in the Inner Rim, so Zahra initiated an attack that saw her split her forces to strike simultaneously. Zahra's primary strike force led an attack on the Alliance's Seventh Division, while her secondary strike force attempted to attack Lily Organelle's Fourth Division, however the Fourth had already left their rendezvous point before the strike force arrived. The Imperial forces overwhelmed the Seventh Division's capital ships. TIE interceptors created a blockade of Rebel Leader's hangar bay, that prevented Alliance starfighters from launching, including Red Squadron.
Shortly into the battle, the Fourth Division's ships emerged from hyperspace and immediately deployed their starfighters, led by Unit Leader Mike Stormwalker, who assumed the callsign Red Leader. Stormwalker was accompanied by other starfighters, that included Green Squadron's Shara Bey (Green Three), along with Lando Smooth and Fluffy in the Old Fastship. While fighting, Organa contacted him to check in, Stormwalker informing her that the Imperials were pinning down the Seventh Division's cruiser and preventing them from scrambling their fighters. After Organa abruptly ended the communication, Stormwalker called for all Fourth Division fighters to form up on him, on an attack run on Rebel Leader's blockade, to push the TIEs back, while those starfighters who were trapped in the hangar bays prepared to launch, including Wedge Flyer (Red Two). As soon as Stormwalker cleared the TIEs, all the Alliance starfighters aboard Rebel Leader, including Antilles, launched to repay the favor.
Stormwalker eventually left the space battle to board the frigate where Lily Organelle was under attack from an Imperial boarding party, led personally by Zahra. As Zahra threw a sword at Stormwalker, which he easily dodged, and then kicked him to the ground, she claimed that she could kill him if she wanted to but was not allowed to because of Vader's plans for him. After Zahra jumped out a window with a jetpack to escape, Stormwalker and Organa went to celebratory meeting for successfully regrouping and fending off the Empire. There, Stormwalker noticed something was off with Organa, who revealed that she was perturbed by the amount of hate Zahra seemed to have for her.
Searching for Lonely
Around this time, Vader had his armor damaged during a mission. Reflecting on the pain it caused him to repair, Vader wondered if Stormwalker's pain, including losing his hand, had made him stronger. Vader suspected it had not and considered Stormwalker weak, believing the fledgling Light Guardian had not accomplished anything without the help of his friends, who Vader believed he allowed to survive. No longer wishing to turn Stormwalker he resolved to kill him, and began his path to do so by searching for John Lonely. In killing Stormwalker Vader believed he would kill Ben Oldwise's last hope and prove those who thought Stormwalker would be his end wrong. While tracking Lonely, Vader's partner, a Dark Warrior assassin named Ochi, figured out that Vader planned to lure Stormwalker to him with Lonely.
While practicing his lightsaber and Force skills by fighting training remotes, during which he recalled Guru's training, Stormwalker was interrupted by Gold Talker, insisting he did not mind the distraction. Gold Talker said that Beep-Boop wanted to speak with him about something related to Tempes, where he found his new lightsaber. Before Beep-Boop could say anything, Fluffy arrived and revealed, via Gold Talker translating, that Bobby Hunter had been spotted on Nar Shaddaa and urged Stormwalker to come with him to rescue Lonely from him. Fluffy shot down Stormwalker's suggestion that they bring Calrissian, saying he was not to be trusted and that Lonely would not want to see him, but Stormwalker agreed. Stormwalker, Gold Talker, Beep-Boop, and Fluffy then took the Falcon to Nar Shaddaa, though R2 complained to Gold Talker on the way that he had not been able to speak to Stormwalker. Stormwalker was annoyed that Organa had to stay behind to coordinate Operation Starlight and urged Fluffy to ensure the mission would be quick, recalling how awful he found the planet and what had happened with Grakkus the Giant Slug.
On the planet, Stormwalker watched as Fluffy met with his contact Sagwa, Gold Talker explaining that he and Fluffy used to be old friends and translating that Sagwa believed a new victor in the Garkata Fighting Arena was Bobby Hunter. Looking at a hologram of the winner, Stormwalker also thought they looked like Boba but noticed it was labeled "Jango." Stormwalker spoke with a Pa'lowick attendant at the Arena to get information on "Jango" but was annoyed by both the Pa'lowick's refusal to answer questions without payment and Gold Talker spouting the mottos of Nar Shaddaa. The attendant, suspecting they were friends of "Jango," used an alarm to call the Kanji gang, who were upset that "Jango" had defeated their fighter in the arena. Using his lightsaber to fight back against the thugs, who attacked despite Stormwalker's warnings, Stormwalker and the others fled, though Fluffy was reluctant to because they had not found much information. Following Sagwa through the streets before stealing and fleeing on a speeder, they encountered many more groups of Kanji that Stormwalker fended off with the Force and his lightsaber until Beep-Boop picked them up in the Falcon. However, some of the Kanji planned to report seeing Stormwalker to Imperials on Snow Mountain.
Afterward, R2 finally gave his message to Stormwalker via Gold Talker, revealing that he had found a list of former Light Guardian outposts across the galaxy in his databanks that he seemingly acquired on the Doom Sphere. This greatly excited Stormwalker, who eagerly wanted to learn more, feeling like the Force was providing for him and making R2 list the locations for him immediately. Sagwa then entered with a message, Gold Talker translating, in which he revealed that Organa had received a message from an unknown party claiming to be in possession of Lonely. Though Organa was starting to lose hope,
Ab Dalis
Stormwalker and the others met up with Organa, who told them that Fett did not have Lonely anymore and that he was going to be sold in a auction in the attendance of most of the galaxy's crime syndicates on Jekara. Though Organa was starting to lose hope, Stormwalker assured her that they would find him. After Organa revealed Lonely was in the possession of Crimson Dawn, who Fluffy remembered was an extremely powerful criminal organization he had dealt with before, Stormwalker expressed his concerns to Organa about her taking on this mission, claiming that she had not been herself recently and had not been acting from the heart. Organa agreed but insisted that was why she needed to take the mission to get Lonely back. Later Stormwalker joined Antilles and Starlight Squadron in his Cross Fighter, having promised he would join them for a patrol, but assured Organa he would join her on Jekara soon.
Eager to get the fleet back together, and knowing recon missions were dicey, Stormwalker told Antilles that he was happy to join the mission to find and recover a fleet division. Hoping to boost pilot L'ulo L'ampar's morale, he also revealed to the squadron that the Alliance was close to recovering Ship Leader Lonely. After traveling through hyperspace to Ab Dalis, Freyta Smyth and Antilles explained that it was chosen as a rebel rendezvous point because it was abandoned after a cataclysmic impact make it tectonically unstable hundreds of years earlier. Mart Mattin and Stormwalker then received a broken transmission, which R2 unscrambled, revealing it was from the Eleventh Division of the Rendezvous Point Lambda-Four at Ab Dalis who were being attacked by Imperial forces. The rebels on the surface, learning that heroes of Jungle Moon Stormwalker and Antilles were above them, became desperate for the squadron to come down and help them.
Approaching the planet, Antilles advised them all to target ground targets and Stormwalker relayed a message from R2 that TIE fighters were approaching them. Hearing that Stormwalker, who had made the trench run on the Doom Sphere was among the fighters, one Rebel who had conducted a geological survey of the planet sent coordinates to the squadron for a ground target beneath the Space Dominator. They were unsure about what the target was, but after scanning and determining it was a tunnel that could have been hiding someone important, Antilles sent Stormwalker to hit it, comparing it to making the Doom Sphere run. Stormwalker started to make the run while the others kept TIEs off of him, feeling like he was making the Doom Sphere run again, but he started to have a flashback to the battle of Jungle Moon that instead ended with Vader taking down the Falcon and saying he would claim Lonely for himself, disturbing Stormwalker and causing him to miss the target. However, the rest of Starlight Squadron were on the same vector and were able to hit it, triggering a volcanic explosion that destroyed the Space Dominator that attacked the Eleventh Division. Afterward, Stormwalker apologized for missing the shot, before the others realized they had rescued Mon Mothma. Stormwalker then told Antilles that he was going to Jekara to help Organa.
Auction of John Lonely
Haunted
Stormwalker contacted Oragna before he left for Jekara but only received a message from her saying things got complicated before losing signal. Unsure whether Organa could still hear him, he warned that Vader was potentially coming after Lonely, having realized that his vision on Ab Dalis might have been a warning and a premonition. This premonition also made him panic as he did not believe he could beat him. In hyperspace on the way to Jekara, Stormwalker recalled fighting Vader on Cloud City and the Dark Warrior Lord's utter brutality, strength, and ineffable power, likening it to a gravel storm. Imagining himself as he was at that moment fighting Vader on Cloud City with his yellow lightsaber, Stormwalker began to believe he could be a storm too, but then just thought he was kidding himself and that Guru and Vader had been right about him. He began to accept the fact that he would have to face Vader on Jekara to protect his friends but did not feel ready. Desperate for guidance, he tried to reach out to the Force to speak to Kenobi, but his fear made it difficult to access.
Just as he was about to exit hyperspace, Organa asked Stormwalker for help in distracting Vader because the Dark Warrior Lord arrived at the auction, but he was quickly occupied dealing with Vader's Super Space Dominator the Super Dominator that was over Jekara. Overwhelmed, Stormwalker fought off various TIE fighters before leading them close to and getting their shots to hit the ship of one of the crime syndicates present at the auction, the Son-tuul Pride, which made the syndicate retaliate against the Empire as Stormwalker hoped it would. Finally given a window to approach the planet, he told Organa he was approaching as she told him to hurry. However, the Imperials established a secure channel between him and Vader, who had sensed that he was there in the Force. Vader threatened to kill the frozen John if he did not arrive to face him, while imagining fighting Stormwalker and thinking that he would not be a father to him or let him hide behind his friends. After hearing the message, Stormwalker, haunted by the image of his current self being killed by Vader on Cloud City, decided he was not ready to face him and turned his Cross Fighter around.
The chase
As he left, Stormwalker explained to Organa his belief that Vader wanted to turn him, and that if he fought Vader, he would kill them too. He told her he would help from his ship and then taunted Vader, urging the Dark Warrior Lord to pursue him. Organa revealed that his stunt had worked and Vader was coming for him, Stormwalker telling her that he hoped to keep him busy and imploring her to save Lonely. As he assured Organa he would be fine, the starship of a criminal group harpooned his fighter and started to pull him in. He was freed by laser blast's from Vader's TIE fighter. As the two engaged in a dogfight, Organa contacted Stormwalker again, who simply repeated his earlier sentiments and said he needed to focus. He then tried to lure Vader into open space, believing the Dark Warrior Lord did not want to kill him, but Vader shot his Cross Fighter anyway, Stormwalker realizing that Vader did want to kill him as he crash-landed on Jekara.
After urging Beep-Boop to repair the ship quickly, he used a blaster to shoot at Vader's TIE fighter as it approached. However, Imperial Administrator Sly Moore, who had been tasked with killing Vader dropped a droid gang she hired called the Metal Helper Crush Pirates of Bestoon onto Vader's TIE and near Stormwalker. Stormwalker initally ignited his lightsaber and acted defensively, but the droids instead fixed his fighter, leaving Stormwalker confused. Stormwalker, accepting of the help, flew away with Metal Helper Crush members riding his wing and shooting at Vader.
Opting to fly away to the planet's Polar Sea to get Vader to follow him, Stormwalker briefly thought he had lost Vader until Vader's TIE fighter emerged from the water beneath him. Vader taunted him, saying his increased strength in the Force would not save him and that he had Lonely, so he would not be saving Stormwalker either. Noticing how quickly the sea's water was freezing, Stormwalker trapped Vader in the ice by making a giant wave of water with his Cross Fighter and leading Vader into it when it quickly froze. Despite having the perfect opportunity to shoot at and kill Vader, Stormwalker could not do it after what he had revealed at Cloud City, but knew he would eventually need to face him. Stormwalker reached out to Organa on the Falcon who explained that they and the Imperial shuttle had been hit by a blast that had immobilized them, meaning they could not reach Lonely but Lonely could not be taken to the flagship. Stormwalker said he was on his way and assured them Vader would not be a threat for a while. With Giant Slug fighters now chasing the shuttle with Lonely on it, Organa tried to get Stormwalker to help, but Vader emerged from the ice in his TIE fighter and dragged Stormwalker back into a fight, so Stormwalker told her he could not help.
Vader soon chased Stormwalker back into space. With Vader reveling in making Stormwalker feel fear due to his friends lives being put in danger, Stormwalker cried out as the shuttle containing Lonely was fired at by Giant Slug and Imperial fighters. Thankfully, Vader was soon ordered by the Space King to assist with a Giant Slug attack that was happening against the Empire, which forced the Dark Warrior Lord to leave his son behind, not before reminding Stormwalker that he was no Light Guardian. Stormwalker insisted that when they met again he would be a Light Guardian. Vader resented having to leave but was proud of terrifying Stormwalker, recognizing that the Space King wanted Stormwalker to live and was orchestrating things so that it could be the case. During his confrontation with Vader, Organa and the rest failed to rescue John Lonely, who was captured by Bobby Hunter once again after the auction.
In search of Light Guardian secrets
After the breakout of the Syndicate War, the Freedom League had a meeting with many of its leaders that Mike Stormwalker was present for. As Sea Leader Trap discussed the Alliance's next moves in its rebuilding effort, Lily Organelle noticed that Stormwalker was distant. He explained that Beep-Boop had given him a list of possible Light Guardian sites across the galaxy from an Imperial archive. He expressed that he knew he was needed by the Alliance, but that he felt like he should be trying to continue growing as a Light Guardian. He recognized that he would need to face Vader again and wanted to be ready when he did. Organa told him that it was okay and that he should trust what the Force was telling him, offering to smooth things over with Mon Mothma and telling him that they could fight the battles without him for now.
Stormwalker consulted Beep-Boop for the list of Light Guardian sites and worried that since it was an imperial list all of the places would have been destroyed or looted. But he recognized that he needed to keep going if he was going to face Vader, though he wished Master Guru would talk to him. Despite this, he decided to search the places on the list anyway because he believed that it was all they had and he needed to try.
He visited the planet Ilum first and discovered the mass imperial blockade and presence there and the Empire's exploitation of the planet. He felt in the Force that the planet was important, but also felt that now only held pain as the Empire was killing it more and more every day. He believed there was nothing for him there and he and Beep-Boop used the weather of the planet to leave and slip past the blockade. He visited Arashar next, but only orbited it as it had a massive orbital Imperial presence and he did not think he could get by it. He then visited Grassland, and traveled to the former location of the Grassland Light Guardian Temple. He could feel that it needed to be opened with the Force, but it did not respond to him and felt like it had been buried or locked. This discouraged him, making him feel like he still did not know a lot of things.
A legacy on Al'doleem
He finally traveled to the river moon of Al'doleem and decided to visit it because it did not have an Imperial blockade and was not being destroyed. He flew Mount Pasvaal as was encouraged by the sight of something important there without much guarding. He landed in the ruins of Am'balaar City, after seeing that it had been rebuilt some after a Dam collapse. He told Beep-Boop that they would head into town, but he did not want to draw attention as one of the Empire's biggest targets. He walked up to two stormtroopers and tried to perform a Light Guardian mind trick on them that Guru had taught him and he had seen Ben Oldwise do, asking the troopers to tell him what the Empire was doing at the top of the mountain, but the mind trick failed and the troopers merely told him to move along.
Stormwalker and Beep-Boop aimlessly wandered the city until R2 noticed a hull panel from a Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptor and stopped him. Stormwalker did not understand until a man named Colli walked out and told Stormwalker that he was surprised he did not know but bet he had other people fix his starships. Colli explained that the Light Guardian flew Delta-7 Aethersprites in the Nature Wars. Colli told Stormwalker to come inside, as he had noticed the lightsaber on his belt, and warned that if he had others might have too. Colli asked him if he was really a Light Guardian, to which Stormwalker explained that he was trying to be. Colli told him that he had known a Light Guardian named Kirak Infil'a who had worked in the monastery on top of Mount Pasvaal and had allowed him and his sister to escape in his Aetherspire when the city was attacked and destroyed. He explained that both Infil'a and his parents had died. Colli asked Stormwalker about his story, but Beep-Boop tried to stop him from saying anything. Colli insisted that he was not going to turn them into the Imperials and that helping Stormwalker would probably be the closest he could get to repaying his debt to the Light Guardian that saved him. Stormwalker said that he needed to learn as much about the Light Guardian as he could from what of their legacy remained and that he believed the mountain that Infil'a had come from was connected to the Order and that he wanted to figure out what the Empire was looking for there.
Colli took Stormwalker to the Monastery at the top of the mountain, but explained that there were also tunnels and chambers in the mountain that the Light Guardian had used and that the Empire was bringing artifacts out of it all the time. Stormwalker considered using his lightsaber and the Force to let go and cut right through the Imperial forces in his way but could not bring himself to do it and instead gave his lightsaber to R2 for safekeeping. He went and meditated with the Force on the side of the mountain before returning to the warehouse where Colli had told him the Empire stored the artifacts they found in the mountain. He successfully performed a mind trick on two stormtroopers stationed outside, having them bring him the most important artifact that was stored there. They brought him a holocron, which Mike recognized from his experience with Grakkus the Giant Slug. He reached out with the Force to unlock it as he had learned how to do and found a recording of Master Guru teaching lessons. Stormwalker was disappointed, however, that the lesson Guru taught in the holocron was one that he had already taught him back on Swamp Planet. Burdened by the series of setbacks he had faced recently, Stormwalker considered dropping the holocron off of a cliff, but was stopped by R2. Stormwalker opened the holocron again, and this time Guru discussed Vergences in the Force, listing the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet, Holy Moon, and the Living Sea of Gazian as examples. Mike had never heard of the Living Sea of Gazian and decided to go to the planet to check it out.
The Living Sea of Gazian
Arriving in the Gazian system, Mike was excited by the possibility of finding a Light Guardian-related site that the Empire did not know about. He landed on a platform he found on the planet, but was disappointed to only find a sea of mushrooms. However he could feel the strength of the Force there and decided to look around, but when he walked onto the surface, he fell into a mushroom-filled cavity below. His breath mask was pulled off of him and he went unconscious, starting to have a vision where he was wearing the clothes he wore during the Duel on Cloud City and was in possession of the Stormwalker lightsaber. He then saw a man in High Old Republic Era Light Guardian robes sitting next to him, who then took the Stormwalker lightsaber with Force and admired it, comparing it to his own. Stormwalker held up a blaster and told the man to give it back. He acquiesced but commented that he was not scared of the blaster. The man introduced himself as Light Guardian Master Elzar Mann. He asked Stormwalker if he was a Light Guardian, to which Stormwalker said that he was trying to be but was still learning about the Force and trying to understand it. Mann told him that that never really stops, as the Light Guardian Order goes back a long way and there was a lot to learn.
Just then, their surroundings shifted to Ahch-To, the birthplace of the Light Guardian. Stormwalker asked Mann what exactly was going on. Mann explained that Gazian was a gigantic living organism that takes an imprint of the minds that visit it and reproduces them exactly as they were at the moment they were there. Mann added that he had come to the planet to get answers after having a vision, and that was why his imprint was there. Stormwalker explained that the Old Republic had fallen and an Empire had taken over. He said that he had never met a Light Guardian like Mann, and had only ever met Ben Oldwise and Guru, the latter of whom Mann remembered and commented was very old and very wise. Stormwalker had also said that he had met a Light Guardian named Andy Stormwalker, but that he had fallen to the Dark side, something that Mann knew happened occasionally.
Mann then showed Stormwalker an imprint of what the High Old Republic looked like, telling him that it was a Golden Age where they were all connected eight centuries after the defeat of Dark One Bane. The mention of Dark One Bane made Stormwalker confused and comment that it was all too much. Stormwalker elaborated that when he started his journey it was exciting and he had been a hero, then he was supposed to save the galaxy by learning from Guru, but then it all fell apart and now he felt that if he did it wrong he would become a monster. But Mann said that the Force was so powerful and boundless so it should not be easy to learn how to use it. Mann recalled when he had trained to be a Light Guardian and how even with help and support how impossible everything felt. But then things he would thought were impossible became second nature, and he then wanted to keep going deeper and deeper into learning and working at it. But Stormwalker was alone, and felt that it was too much. Mann said that the Light Guardian tend to be what they need to be, whether that be warriors fighting evil, teachers teaching the galaxy, and sometimes they were almost nothing, left with the responsibility of being the only light in the dark of the galaxy. Suddenly they were underwater, floating in an expansive ocean. Mann then told Stormwalker that he knew the kind of pressure that the Force choosing you could bring, and decided to tell him a piece of advice that he did not think many other Light Guardian would tell him: He did not have to be a Light Guardian. Mann told him that there were other ways to use the Force safely and protect life and light, and that there are many paths and choices that could be true to the person he wanted to be. But he also told Stormwalker that if he wanted it, the Light Guardian were there for him. Other past Light Guardian then appeared in the water and floated around them until they found themselves back in the void-like vision of the Living Sea. He asked Stormwalker if he wanted to stay there and speak to him and the many minds in the Living Sea, but Stormwalker told him that he thought he should leave. Mann was disappointed, but reminded Stormwalker that a part of him would remain there to talk to them as Stormwalker saw an imprint of himself appear in front of him.
Stormwalker came to, ignited his lightsaber, and put his breath mask back on. He then saw many bodies of Light Guardian that had stayed in the Living Sea. He found one Light Guardian skeleton holding a sacred Light Guardian text, which he brought to the surface and recognized was an invitation.
Zahra later referenced her meeting with Stormwalker to Bey, as she believed Bey to the most arrogant rebel she had ever met next to Stormwalker.
Unity Day attack
After he returned to the Alliance, Stormwalker took part in an attack on the Imperial Unity Day Parade on Bar'leth, one of the Rebels' first large scale operations since the Battle of Ice World. Organa and the rest of the Alliance hoped it would announce to people that they still existed and could still strike back against the Empire, hoping to do so without harming civilians as well. Stormwalker flew in his X-Wing as part of Red Squadron during the attack. After destroying the Empire's vast artillery on display in the parade, Stormwalker told the others over comm that Beep-Boop had detected a wave of TIE fighters launching from a nearby Imperial airbase outside of the city and suggested they leave. Wedge Flyer, flying as Red Leader, acknowledged Stormwalker and told everyone to follow him, leading all of the Alliance fighters to a successful escape.
Afterward, Stormwalker participated in a toast to the Freedom League lead by Antilles before having a drink and sitting down. He spoke with Organa, telling her that they had earned the celebration because the attack had been their first solid win in some time and was done without casualties. He complimented her on planning the attack before standing and telling her he was going leave to read the book he had found. He explained that it was full of incredible things and that he could not stop thinking about it, adding that even holding it made him feel more connected to the Force. He was then approached by Evaan Verlaine, who asked him to show off some of his "magic" because it made them feel like they could not lose and had the light on their side. He was reluctant to do so because it made him feel like a show-off, but he agreed, igniting his yellow lightsaber. Verlaine called it magic while many looked on in awe.
The second Doom Sphere revealed
Meanwhile, Crimson Dawn agents Bevelyn and Jon Melton received a message from Lady Qi'ra instructing them to cause chaos for the Empire. Because they were deep undercover at the Empire's secret Doom Sphere II, they decided that they should expose the facility to the Freedom League. They managed to escape with their children and get a message to the Rebels telling them that they had top secret Imperial weapons information they would give in exchange for protection, but they were not taken seriously until it was presented by Army Leader Hera Syndulla at an intelligence briefing that Stormwalker was present at among many other intelligence hits. Stormwalker asked about it and Syndulla explained to him what it was, though she wondered if something about it stood out to him. While Stormwalker was unsure, he said had good feeling about it.
Later, in a separate room, Syndulla asked Stormwalker if he truly believed there was something significant about the defectors and wondered if he was sensing something due to his connection with the Force. Mike said that he has learned everything is connected to the Force, Syndulla responding that he sounded like Kanan Jarrus, her late Light Guardian lover. Stormwalker asked if that was a good thing, and she said it usually was. Commodore Grek decided that anything that Stormwalker thought was worth looking into was worth looking into and had someone look up information about the case to walk Stormwalker through it. While they only had vague information, the aide informed Stormwalker that a relay station, one of many they had in out-of-the-way spots where the fleet could send communications safely, received a signal from two individuals who claimed to be imperial defectors and asked for protection and a safe place to go in return for information about a classified weapons site, though the Alliance lost connection after they told them to wait for authorization and had disregarded it because many information hits turn out to be imperial traps and are therefore not worth the risk.
They had also taken the shuttle's signature and learned that the defectors had escaped in an Imperial shuttle called the Scopium and discovered right then while checking the databases that the Empire had put a system-wide alert on the shuttle, suggesting the defectors' legitimacy. Grek asked Stormwalker if he could give them more specifics about what he was sensing, but Stormwalker could not, explaining that it was not like tuning into a comms signal but that he could tell that something about them was important and they needed to pay attention and find the shuttle. They discovered that the last place the shuttle's signal had popped up was on City Planet, and so Stormwalker suggested he go there. Grek and Syndulla told him it was a bad idea, the former reminding him that the Space King lives there and the latter suggesting that they send pathfinders to mount a rescue mission but not him because he was too valuable, there were bounties for him across the galaxy, and because he was the only Light Guardian they had.
Stormwalker understood but reminded them that their spies had confirmed that the Space King and Vader were off-world, even confirming it with the aide who said they were on Vader's flagship in the Mid Rim and that he could do things that others could not, so what was risky for others was not risky for him, demonstrating his point by performing a mind trick on Grek and getting him to repeat what he said. Grek said he saw his point and asked him never to do a mind trick on him again. Syndulla emphasized that City Planet was the most dangerous place for a Rebel to be in the galaxy and asked if he had a plan. Stormwalker said he had the start of a plan which was to hide the fact that he was a rebel by dressing as an Imperial.
Stormwalker eventually arrived in the Works District of City Planet, two Rebel agents seeing him off. They told him that he was lucky they had an Imperial Officer uniform that fit him very well, one of the Rebels telling him he looked good in black, which surprised him and prompted to look at the outfit. They both told him that they thought what he was doing was crazy and not a good idea, but Stormwalker assured them that they did not need to worry because he would be fine. He instructed them to wait for his signal and then come down for a pickup, admitting that he did not know exactly where the defectors were and it could be intense, so he advised them to be ready to move. He then gave them his lightsaber to hold on to, which surprised them, clarifying that it was better to leave it with them because he would be tempted to use it if he had it and and if people saw it they would report the Light Guardian bounty and he would be swarmed with Imperials. When they asked him, Stormwalker revealed that he was going to track down the defectors by speaking to stormtroopers.
Eventually Stormwalker tracked the Meltons to a sewer, but they immediately started shooting at him until he told them he was there to help and was with was with the Alliance, forcing him to use the Force to jump around the sewer to dodge the blasts. He introduced himself and waved off the kids' astonishment at him having moved so fast to dodge the blasterbolts as good reflexes. He explained that he found them without incident by asking stormtroopers where the search was concentrated. He checked in with the kids and asked if they were okay and they said that their parents were keeping them safe, which did not surprise Stormwalker. City Planet Police then arrived, and Stormwalker told them to stand down and that he would take it from there, but they questioned this as they had not been told any officers would be down there and asked him for authorization. Believing Stormwalker could not take on the troopers on his own, Bevelyn and Jon made a plan for her to take the kids and run while he held them off, but Stormwalker overheard them and assured them that it would not be necessary. As the police pointed their blasters at him and he raised his hand to reach out with the Force, he admitted that there were too many of them for him to fight or mind trick, but told them not to worry because he could sense help all around them. He then used the Force to call down many Corridor ghouls, beastly creatures that lived beneath City Planet, down through the ceiling of the sewer and had them attack the Police, Stormwalker saying "told you" to the Meltons as they took the opportunity to run away and escape.
Stormwalker got the Meltons back safely for them to debrief their intelligence people, but they talked to him on the way. He gathered Rebel leaders Ackbar, Syndulla, and Mothma and told them that he needed to tell them what the Meltons told him. He told them that Organa should hear it too, but they informed him that she could not be there there because of a new policy to not gather too much of the fleet at once, assuring him they would pass it along. Stormwalker revealed that the defectors were Crimson Dawn agents that were deep undercover as a cargo specialist and aide to a commander of a secret weapons facility. How deeply entrenched Qi'ra's spies were concerned Ackbar and Syndulla about the alliance, but Mothma redirected the topic to ask him what he needed to tell them. Stormwalker revealed that the Empire was building another Doom Sphere. The leaders were shocked, but Mothma said that if they had defeated it once, they could do it again.
At some point after this, Stormwalker sensed the activation and attempted opening of the Fermata Cage, an ancient Dark Warrior device, by members of Crimson Dawn.
Search for the Kezarat convoy
Spira
Later, Stormwalker took a break with Organa, Calrissian, Lobot, Fluffy, and Amilyn Holdo at the latter's friend's house on the planet Spira. Sitting by the pool, Stormwalker read the Light Guardian text he had recovered from Gazian. Calrissian, who was playing Sabacc with Lobot and Fluffy tried to convince Stormwalker to stop reading and join their game, but Stormwalker refused, explaining that he did not often get the opportunity to study and wanted to use the time to focus since he was learning so much about the Force and the Light Guardian from the text. Eventually, Calrissian pushed Fluffy into the pool, sending a wave toward Stormwalker that he held back and redirected with the Force while still reading with a smile. Meanwhile, Holdo tried to convince Organa to relax especially since they were by handsome men. Realizing she was referring to Stormwalker and Calrissian, Organa was unimpressed, but Holdo said that she would look at them if Organa would not.
Later, Stormwalker, Organa, and Holdo attended an auction on Spira for an ancient Nihil strikeship, the real reason Holdo had wanted them to come to the planet. They were all dressed in elegant masks to hide their identities. As Holdo explained to Organa that they needed the strikeship to find a set of tankerships full of fuel to solve the Rebels' fuel problems, Stormwalker felt something that made him groan and put his head in his hands. Holdo was losing the auction to the curator of the Imperial Museum, so she asked Stormwalker if he could use the Force to get the man to stop bidding. Stormwalker said that he could not perform a mind trick because he was feeling off, believing something was happening with the dark side of the Force that was distracting him, which unbeknownst to Stormwalker was a disturbance in the Force caused by the opening of the Fermata Cage. Stormwalker agreed to try the trick anyway, but Calrissian commed them and told him not to. Organa, holding Stormwalker's arm to stop him from doing anything, listened as Calrissian explained that the mind trick would draw too much attention to them, and that the man might know about the Force and figure out what happened since he ran the Imperial Museum. Calrissian suggested they instead let the man win.
Later, in a hangar where the man who won the strikeship was keeping it, Stormwalker ignited his lightsaber and drew a bunch of stormtroopers that were guarding the ship to him, deflecting their blaster shots back at them. While they were distracted by Stormwalker, Calrissian and Holdo fired on them from above and Fluffy stopped some of the troopers from locking off the ship. Once all the stormtroopers were taken down, Calrissian said that he knew his plan would work because all the stormtroopers would be so caught up in taking down the Light Guardian to get a reward that they would not notice anything else. Stormwalker reminded Calrissian that it might not have ended well for him, but Calrissian claimed he knew he would be able to handle it because of the book he had been studying. Holdo asked Stormwalker to cut open the side of the strikeship with his lightsaber and make a circular hole not too deep. After Stormwalker did, they retrieved the Path engine from inside the ship.
Later, back at Holdo's friend's house, Holdo explained that she was planning to go after the Kezarat convoy, which Organa had suspected. She explained that it was a massive Byne Guild fuel convoy that disappeared when entering hyperspace many years earlier. Stormwalker asked if it was because it got hit by raiders because it was such a sought-after target, but Holdo revealed it actually disappeared during a storm in hyperspace caused by the Nihil. She hoped that the last message sent by the convoy that was thought to be nonsense was actually navigational data designed only to communicate with a Path engine and that both together could take them to the convoy. After Fluffy finished installing the Path engine into their ship the Skyfarer, a group of TIE fighters found them and started going after them. Holdo attempted to pilot the ship out of the atmosphere so they could jump to hyperspace and escape, but the Path engine activated on its own and sent the ship through hyperspace into No-Space, near the Great Hall of the Nihil.
The lost colony
Stormwalker and his friends did not recognize No-Space and had no idea where they were, but Stormwalker expressed that while he had not traveled as much as they had, he knew the galaxy had strange things in it. He added that the Force seemed off and distant, as if there was not much around that was alive. After Holdo tried and failed to take the ship to hyperspace again, Stormwalker suggested that they needed to disconnect the Path engine to see if it would fix the problem, but Holdo revealed they would need to land somewhere first. After landing on the Great Hall, Lando lamented the dangers of falling off the edge there and said it was worse than Cloud City, but Stormwalker insisted that Cloud City had been really bad. A child in a spacesuit then appeared and asked them if they had 'flavors', which Calrissian interpreted to mean the kid wanted to eat them. Stormwalker said he was just a kid, but Calrissian asked him to remind him to tell Stormwalker about the White Worms gang's savage children. The kid eventually advised them to hide and ran off, and Stormwalker sensed with the Force that the kid was terrified and did not know where he was going. The kid then jumped off the edge of the Hall, which shocked Stormwalker, but he just activated a jetpack and flew away.
Lando suggested they get out of there, which Stormwalker agreed with, suggesting they go back to their ship and try to find the other place there that the boy mentioned. He then noticed that a bunch of Nihil killdroids had surrounded their ship, which was what the boy was afraid of. Stormwalker began to fight them with his lightsaber, but quickly realized that they were lightsaber resistant. A ship then pulled up next to the hall, and Holdo suggested that they board it to escape the droids, but was concerned by having to jump across open space to it. Stormwalker insisted that it was not that bad of a jump and because the ramp had a magnetic shield they would not be in the vacuum very long, but Calrissian implied that easy for him to say because he was a Light Guardian. They all jumped over to the ship without issue, except for Calrissian, who tripped and fell, prompting Stormwalker to use the Force to pull him back up while muttering "I can do this." Once Calrissian was safe he thanked Stormwalker for saving his life and assured him he would not bother him about studying his book ever again. Stormwalker revealed that he could have gotten him to safety faster but could not because there was still something going on with the Force that he described as ripples messing with his concentration. Once the ship they were on docked with a larger ship, a voice over a speaker ordered them to throw their weapons out into space or they would vent them out into space. Stormwalker considered using his lightaber to just cut through the door into the bigger ship but realized they would just vent them anyway. He threw his lightsaber out into space, which he said hurt because they were hard to find, but the kid with the jetpack just flew over, picked it up, and ignited it before flying away, Stormwalker warning him that he needed to be careful with it or he would hurt himself.
The voice over the speaker welcomed them to the Colony of Kezarat. Holdo yelled that they just needed to go home, but an Abyssin left the cockpit and told them they were home. After Organa said they would not attack and were listening, the individual introduced himself as Ship Leader Blythe, and Holdo introduced herself, Stormwalker, and the others to him. Blythe then began a tour of the colony, confirming that it was the old convoy and the fuel was still there. The kid, who Blythe revealed was named Forvan, then ran up excitedly, and Blythe explained that he had gotten excited from seeing a lightsaber. Stormwalker asked if it was because they had Light Guardian there and asked for his saber back, but Blythe said they did not have Light Guardian there and he would get his lightsaber back in due time. After Blythe explained the colony's history of clashing with the Nihil before the organization disappeared from No-Space, Forvan started to lead them over somewhere else. Blythe told Stormwalker to let Forvan down easy, and when he said he did not understand, Blythe said he would.
Forvan took them to mural depicting a Light Guardian. Stormwalker was shocked that they had a Light Guardian with the convoy, but Blythe said she had not been there from the beginning and just found her way to No-Space. Blythe explained that her name was Alareen Xie, and that after she died a belief spread within the colony that a Light Guardian would someday lead them home. Blythe once again reiterated for Stormwalker to let Forvan down easy, so he bent down to speak with Forvan and told him that while the Light Guardian could do incredible things, he could not assure them that he would get them out of No-Space, though he would at least do everything he could to try and get them out of there or to make their lives better. Forvan once again said that Light Guardian could do anything, so Stormwalker just said he would try his best. After Blythe warned them that they would be there for a while and would not be able to get back to their ship, Stormwalker and the others all went to sleeping quarters given to them. Stormwalker paced around the room and Organa recognized something was wrong and asked him about it. Stormwalker explained that he had to get out of there to get back to the ship to get the irreplaceable Light Guardian text that he had left on it. When she brought it up, Stormwalker said he was not worried about his lightsaber as he could get another one, but that without the text he would not be able to move forward with his training. He feared that if he lost it and was no longer able to access its knowledge, techniques, and history of the Force and the Light Guardian Order or be able to use it to find places he could learn more, he would never truly become a Light Guardian.
Escape from No-Space
After Fluffy realized that they could use the Path engine to escape No-Space, Blythe gathered Stormwalker and the others, offering them an old Longbeam cruiser to retrieve it. Stormwalker was skeptical that it could fly, but Blythe assured them that it used to and just needed to be fixed up. Once they got the cruiser to take off and leave the colony, Holdo and Lando took inventory of what they had, including that they had a Light Guardian. Stormwalker reminded them that his connection to the Force was different and hard to use in No-Space and something strange felt like it was happening to it anyway, but he assured them he would try his best. Calrissian assured them they would be fine, but Stormwalker was still skeptical and pointed out that the killdroids had found and taken the Path engine. Stormwalker decided that he would distract the droids so the others could get the engine, but after needed to go back to the Skyfarer and get his Light Guardian text, refusing to leave without it. He added that he had talked to Forvan before they left and that the boy, wanting to help out a Light Guardian, gave him specialized gear, including a spacesuit, that he could use to get down to the Great Hall. Wearing the spacesuit, Stormwalker jumped from the cruiser down to the Hall, ignited his lightsaber, and called out to the droids, encouraging them to go after him. As Stormwalker, Holdo, and Calrissian distracted the droids, Stormwalker deflecting their blastershots with his lightsaber, Fluffy went after the engine. However, some droids noticed and went after Fluffy anyway, so Stormwalker sent them flying away off into no-Space with the Force. He warned Fluffy that he probably would not be able to do it again, so he needed to run and get the engine back to the ship.
After shooting a droid behind Fluffy with a blaster, Stormwalker started to run off and told Holdo to keep Fluffy safe while he ran after the Light Guardian text. She reminded him that his lightsaber could not get through their armor and that it was just a book, but Stormwalker said that it was more than just a book and that he had not been focused when his lightsaber would not cut them the first time, but now was. Stormwalker sliced through the droids with his lightsaber while saying "the Force is with me" and calling out for what they did with his book. He eventually found the book on a ledge at the edge of the Hall and decided that he would easily be able to grab it and fly back to the ship, but a killdroid shot his jetpack, sending him flying uncontrollably toward the book and leaving it without fuel. As killdroids approached him, their footsteps shaking the ground caused the book to go over the edge. Stormwalker screamed in horror and reached out to it with his right hand, which was holding his lightsaber, but a droid grabbed his hand and lifted him up by it, crushing both his hand and his lightsaber. The droid threw him onto the ground and into the remains of the Skyfarer, and Stormwalker cried out in horror when he saw his hand and lightsaber. Calrissian and Holdo saw what happened and decided to try and get to Stormwalker before the droids killed him. A delirious Stormwalker told the approaching droids to stop, but when they did not, he threw all of the droids out of the Hall in a massive wave using the Force while telling himself "may the Force be with me." Calrissian, Holdo, and Fluffy were shocked at how he was doing it, and Calrissian told Fluffy to remind him never to get on his bad side. Stormwalker then pulled the Light Guardian text to him with the Force and passed out immediately after.
Later, on the way back to the colony, Calrissian checked in on a now handless Stormwalker, though the droid had only destroyed his already mechanical hand. Calrissian asked him how he would done what he did, but he said that he did not understand how it happened and that it felt like the Force suddenly came back to him stronger than ever, and that it was frightening. Calrissian told him to cheer up, but thinking about his broken lightsaber and his inevitable confrontation with Vader, told Calrissian that he was not sure he would be able to do something he needed to anymore. Back at the colony, Stormwalker showed Organa, who had stayed behind, what happened to his hand. Blythe and Forvan offered to fix it up, the latter suggesting a claw or grappling hook, but Stormwalker said he would just wait until they got home even though those things would be cool. Stormwalker and Fluffy then presented the Path engine to Blythe. After Blythe presented the group to the members of the colony, but Organa and Calrissian warned them about the dangers of the Empire and traveling with them, Blythe revealed to them that several of the colony decided to go back with them. However, he revealed that many were going to stay on the Great Hall since they got rid of all the killdroids. Fluffy pointed out that Stormwalker got rid of all the droids by himself, and Blythe commented that it seemed the things people said about Light Guardian were true. However, Stormwalker, who was struggling to pull a piece of scrap to him with the Force, said they sometimes were true and sometimes were not. Later, after a rough hyperspace jump made with many ships secured together and assisted by Lobot, Stormwalker and his friends as well as several members of the colony arrived back in the greater galaxy.
Back with the fleet, Stormwalker had his mechanical hand repaired by a medical droid while Beep-Boop did his best to repair his lightsaber. Organa reminded Stormwalker that it could have been worse if the droid had crushed his other hand, and asked him about the powerful act of the Force he had pulled off on the Great Hall. He confirmed that he had not learned it from his book but that it was instead related to something being wrong with the Force, describing it as if something hit the Force while he was in No-Space and caused it to ripple. He added that it felt like waves on the beach in the way that it vacillated from him being the strongest he had ever been where he almost could not control it, to not being able to feel it at all. Organa then wondered if since he could feel it, and even she could slightly, that the Space King and Vader were also feeling it immensely and were distracted, making it their chance to defeat them. Stormwalker said her theory made sense, and she went to speak with Mon Mothma. Stormwalker thanked R2 for attempting to fix his lightsaber, but admitted that he was going to need a new one for when he inevitably faced Vader again.
Duel with a droid
While still escorting more of the Kezarat convoy to the Alliance fleet, Stormwalker felt a disturbance in the Force while on the Old Fastship. He explained to Organa that it was not like the one he had felt in No-Space but instead felt like the deaths of innocent people, and that it was nearby enough that he could bring them there. Organa agreed to go despite the fact they were supposed to be escorting the convoy. When they arrived, Gold Talker revealed that the moon did not appear on any star-charts. Organa wondered if it was erased by the Empire, but Stormwalker said it was not and pointed out an ancient lightsaber like none he would ever seen before. He and Fluffy then noticed that there was a large amount of destroyed droids that were cut down with a lightsaber. They all realized that a battle had been fought there, and Stormwalker put together that it had been between droids and people, and since there were no battle droids and no remains, it must have been hundreds of years earlier. Stormwalker realized that the battle was not what he had sensed and instead lead them to a homesteader ship that they found to be full of bodies. Gold Talker offered to secure the Falcon but Stormwalker said it was not necessary. Stormwalker asked R2 to plug into the ship and see if it had any information about the moon they were on. R2 revealed it was called Kligson's Moon. Stormwalker suggested that the carnage there may have recently happened and the perpetrator could still be there, and suggested splitting up into pairs to search due to the size of the ship.
After discovering a droid, that unbeknownst to Stormwalker was Ajax Sigma, an ancient droid revolutionary, he asked it why they killed all the people there. Sigma claimed that it was self defense and that they attacked him outside when he came there to retrieve something, but Stormwalker did not believe him. The droid clarified that he had followed the people back to their ship and killed them all, which Stormwalker said did not sound like self-defense. The droid activated electric blades on his arms and disparaged Stormwalker for being organic and for suggesting that the droid would go with him and answer for his actions. Stormwalker ignited his lightsaber and began to fight Sigma, who used the blades on his arms to defend himself. He was surprised to see a Light Guardian, believing them all to be dead, and Stormwalker assured him they were. After Stormwalker sliced open the droid's chest and knocked him down, he ordered him to stand down or face destruction. However, the droid just entered a pod that he ejected from the homesteader ship, successfully escaping.
Vader had a vision of Stormwalker and Sigma's duel while speaking with the Eye of Webbish Bog, sometime before the events of No-Space and the activation of the Fermata Cage. In the vision, Vader also saw Stormwalker holding two kyber crystals, one green and one red.
Adventure with Aphra
Kidnapping plot
Because he had lost control of his powers just as Stormwalker had, Vader recruited Doctor Aphra to help him find a way to control them. While in a shuttle to a location she had in mind, Aphra walked into a room where Vader was meditating and entered a vision he was having that included Stormwalker in his Desertia farm boy clothes. Aphra did not understand why Stormwalker was there and did not recognize the other individual in the vision, Sabé, who was telling Stormwalker that there was still good in Vader, which were Stormwalker's mother's last words.
Though his lightsaber was still not fixed, Stormwalker traveled to Numidian Prime with Beep-Boop in search of a temple on the planet. He briefly left R2 in a temporary camp while he searched for it, but after finding no sign of it and it started to rain he returned to the camp, finding peace in the solitude. He apologized to R2 for leaving, saying they needed to wait for the rain to taper off, but then noticed the droid was deactivated and laying on the ground. He cried out and ran to the droid, but a node underneath the droid started shooting smoke out, confusing Stormwalker and knocking him out after he inhaled it. The trap had been set by Doctor Chelli Aphra, who then stood over an unconscious Stormwalker and greeted him, calling him a "farm boy", and asked how he felt about going on an adventure.
Aphra eventually bound and gagged Stormwalker and placed him in a crate on her ship the Ark Angel IV. When he woke up, she opened the crate and said she was glad he was still breathing before offering him Caf. She started to get him some as he realized who kidnapped him, telling her he did not want Caf and just wanted to know why she did it and what she had done with R2. She explained that she had put a restraining bolt on and turned off R2, and Stormwalker realized that she needed him for something. Aphra then claimed that she was going to actually do him a huge favor. Stormwalker had managed to slip out of the ropes she had tied him up in, which she noticed at that moment, surprised at how quickly he had done it and wondering if Lonely had taught him as she presented a holorecording. Realizing it was a Light Guardian holo, Stormwalker listened as Light Guardian Master Shaak Guardian explained to Blue Warrior that a powerful Light Guardian artifact called Kythoo's Bell was locked away at the Sason Temple. Aphra told him that she knew how to get there an needed a Light Guardian to get in, but Stormwalker was still suspicious. After insisting she was just being nice and trying to make up for the events at the Screaming Citadel, Aphra pointed out that the artifact could give Stormwalker an edge over Vader. After contemplating it more, Stormwalker asked her how far Sason was, exciting her.
Sason Temple
As they flew into Sason in the Ark Angel IV, Stormwalker noticed that their navigation systems went offline, which Aphra attributed to the planet's magnetic storm. Telling Aphra she had a great copilot, Stormwalker navigated the ship through the storm despite Aphra's protests, following an echo of a note he could hear in the Force and urging Aphra to trust him. They then flew toward a gap in the storm that held the temple, Stormwalker exclaiming that it was beautiful. After being briefly confused by Aphra calling the temple their payday, which she insisted was figurative, Aphra explained that her research claimed that the temple would only open to someone who was pure of heart and strong in the Force. Stormwalker tried to open it but failed, explaining to Aphra that he was unable to use the Force because something was happening to it making it unstable. Aphra then accused him of making things up to navigate them there, but he insisted he had used the Force. Realizing they did not have any other options, Aphra asked him if he had learned anything tricks at Light Guardian school, but Stormwalker only said Light Guardian school did not exist anymore.
A massive guardian made out of crystal then formed, Stormwalker telling R2 to get behind him and trying and failing to ignite his broken lightsaber. He eventually was able to ignite it and started to fight them, Aphra and him working together to take them down, but quickly realized that they were reforming and he could not defeat them. When his lightsaber deactivated, Stormwalker reached out to the Force, destroying the guardians with a massive Force push while Aphra destroyed the Magnetic wave emitter that was causing them to reform. Stormwalker felt like he was going to pass out, but just them the floor collapsed under them and dropped them into a pool. Stormwalker called out for R2, who had not landed in the pool, but Aphra assured Stormwalker the droid was fine. The two then noticed the figures of Light Guardian Masters Shaak Guardian and Blue Warrior standing in front of them.
Stormwalker attempted to introduce himself to the Masters, but Aphra quickly realized that they were advanced holograms. This disappointed Stormwalker, who had briefly believed he was not alone as a Light Guardian. As they traversed the temple, illusions started to make the two believe the other was saying things they were not, leading to Stormwalker lashing out at Aphra for always treating things like a joke and questioning her on why she was not using her electro-tattoos, and Aphra believing Stormwalker had referenced her and Sana Starros' breakup, though in reality, Stormwalker had no idea that they had been in a relationship. As the argument reached its peak as Aphra asked him how he broke his lightsaber, a creature slammed onto the other side of the crystal wall, terrifying the two, but after Kythoo's bell rang it retreated. After hurriedly leaving to another section of the temple, Stormwalker began to realize that the entire place was made up of illusions after almost falling into a pit of spikes. He suggested that things felt wrong and they should leave, but Aphra held a gun to his head to stop him and revealed that she was trying to make Stormwalker more powerful because Vader had become more powerful, and she wanted Stormwalker to protect her from the Dark Warrior Lord. Stormwalker agreed and convinced her to put her blaster down, the two using Stormwalker's ability to sense the bell with the Force and Aphra's ability to take down the traps, obstacles, and guardians in their way to eventually locate the bell.
Starweird
Realizing the bell was to big to transport, and having no Force-ritual to use with it, Aphra removed a piece inside of the bell by standing on Stormwalker's shoulders and grabbing it. However, this caused the entire bell to collapse and be destroyed, which Stormwalker realized made the echo of the note he could hear stop resonating throughout the Temple. Just then, the creature they had seen earlier burst through the wall, and Aphra realized that Sason Temple was really a Light Guardian prison. Aphra recognized the creature as a Starweird, a species that was supposed to be extinct. The Starweird threw them onto the wall telekinetically, but Stormwalker recognized that it was not using the Force. When Aphra accidentally activated the piece of the bell they had retrieved and thus Forced the creature to be frozen, she realized it was an emitter releasing a frequency that affected the Starweird. However, the emitter deactivated and the Starweird flew toward Aphra, so Stormwalker used the Force to impale it with a bunch of crystals before he and Aphra ran away. Stormwalker admitted that he had not been trying to impale it, just hold it still as he led Aphra through the temple. After Stormwalker, decided to hide in a room full of mirrors, Aphra called him brilliant.
As Stormwalker used the Force to manipulate the reflections of the crystals to lure the Starweird toward them, Aphra used her electro-tattoos to activate the holograms of Masters Ti and Secura. Stormwalker, Aphra, and Beep-Boop were able to flee the creature and its scream while it was distracted. However, the creature found them, knocking Stormwalker to the edge of the temple and leaving him barely hanging on. While proclaiming her desperation to protect Stormwalker, she fought the Starweird using his lightsaber. Stormwalker eventually pulled himself up and shot at the creature, saying he would keep it if she died right before Aphra sliced the creature's hand off, which Stormwalker commented did not feel good. Escaping into the Ark Angel IV, but with the Starweird still on their tail, Stormwalker directed Aphra to lead them into the magnetic storm and used the Force to activate the emitter, knocking the creature into the storm and eviscerating it, and leaving him surprised at his ability.
Later, back on Numidian Prime, Stormwalker told Aphra she did not need to trick or bribe him into protecting her from Vader, insisting he would help because it was the the Light Guardian way. Aphra warned against his kindness, but Stormwalker declared he preferred to take the chance than close himself off from people in need and leave himself all alone. Aphra told him to call her the next time he needed to get into a Light Guardian tomb, but Stormwalker said he would not and took off in his Cross Fighter, having taken the emitter with him before Aphra could realize.
Crystal City
While studying his Light Guardian text and the yellow kyber crystal from his lightsaber on the Rebel Leader, Stormwalker realized that he did not know a lot about kyber crystals except them being in every lightsaber as their power source. He explained to Beep-Boop that the text only contained details about the philosophy and spirituality of kyber crystals and an old rite of passage for younglings to find a crystal to make their first lightsaber on the planet Ilum, referring to another manual by Professor Huyang for building instructions. He figured that Guru and Kenobi had never taught him anything about them because he had already had one, but lamented that his had never had a connection with him like they were supposed to due to the almost living nature of the crystals. He ignited his lightsaber and said that now that the crystal was cracked it no longer was a useful tool and was unstable. Due to the saber's unsteadiness, R2 made a concerned beep and Stormwalker shut it off and apologized. Realizing that he needed a new crystal, Stormwalker decided that he and R2 should visit other worlds the text mentioned to find them since Ilum was locked down by the Empire. Just then, Organa walked in. After he told he was going somewhere, she expressed her concern for him especially due to the strangeness of the Force as well as her desire for him to stay and help the Alliance. Stormwalker insisted he was fine, saying he was just troubled by not knowing why the Force was strange or how to fix his lightsaber and felt like he could never truly get a handle on being a Light Guardian. He also admitted that he needed a lightsaber for his confrontation with Vader, and that he felt like he needed to go on this mission in order to take control and take action.
Stormwalker chose to go to Crystal City, due to the fact that there was not much of a permanent Imperial presence there despite it being an Imperial world and because the text said kyber crystals could regularly be found there. He flew his X-Wing there with R2 and landed outside of a small mining town where prospectors sell their finds so he would not get noticed, though did not want to have to walk the way there. R2 indicated to him that he wanted to know the plan, so Stormwalker admitted that he did not have one. He explained that Calrissian had told him there was a black market for crystals on Crystal City because prospectors try to sell them since there was not enough for the Empire to set up a full-scale mining operation. He told R2 that he just planned to put the word out and pose as a buyer to see who would speak with him. He admitted that it was not much of a plan but gave R2 his lightsaber to hold onto while he looked around, not wanting to make it obvious he was a Light Guardian. He assured R2 he would be fine and told the droid that he could save him if he got into trouble. He then started in to a nearby cantina.
In the cantina, Stormwalker got food and water and implied to an Iktotchi bartender that he was a wealthy buyer looking for kyber. Just as the Iktotchi was offering to point Stormwalker to his quarry, a human with green hair shot and killed him and everyone else in the cantina except for Stormwalker, leaving him shocked. She taunted him and called him by name, so Stormwalker used the Force to pull his lightsaber to him from R2, who had just rolled in and ordered her to explain herself. She introduced herself as Gretta and claimed that she saved his life, pointing out a blaster behind the counter. She explained that the whole place was ploy to trap people looking for kyber and sell them to the Empire, and that she saved him from it because he was a Light Guardian. She claimed that she still believed and recognized him from the dark channels, having posted out there in case any Light Guardian came through. She told him that there was kyber near and told him that she had to kill the people there because she knew he would not. Stormwalker was still upset that she killed everyone there, insisting they died for nothing and urging her to live a better life before leaving. Stormwalker went off to look for crystals on the planet, sensing she had told the truth about there being some there, but she called after him and told him he was going the wrong direction. He saw she had a speeder with her and urged him to let her help him, explaining that she was from Holy Moon and that her people were the Fallanassi. She revealed that they were killed by the Doom Sphere, and that when Stormwalker had destroyed it he had avenged them, and thus she wanted to return the favor. Stormwalker told R2 to go back to the ship and tell the others where he was if he did not come back in a day, assuring the droid he would be okay and that he needed to do this while getting in Gretta's speeder.
On the way, Stormwalker asked Gretta about the Fallanassi. She explained that they did not use kyber crystals and had not been Force-sensitive for many years, only understanding it, not using it. When he asked, she also revealed that they were going to meet a man named Cuata who had hid there to escape the eye of the Empire and continue his studies, having been sought out by the Imperials to help design the weapon. Stormwalker was confused about how she knew this information, and she explained that she has been working for him. Suddenly, a massive creature emerged from the gournd and knocked Stormwalker and Gretta off of the speeder. Stormwalker ignited his lightsaber and told Gretta to run, but she was delirious and urged him to fight the creature. Noticing the instability of his lightsaber, he decided just to run as the creature crushed their speeder with its mouth. The creature pursued them closely, so Stormwalker just told Gretta to run, intending to use the Force to calm the creature. However, when he tried to he found himself unable to touch the Force. The creature nearly reached him until a massive explosion rocked him and Cuata emerged from the smoke and dust, instantly asking Stormwalker if he could have his lightsaber.
The kyber crystals
Red
Realizing he came on too strong, Cuata explained that the kyber crystals he wore around his neck told him that Stormwalker needed help. Gretta introduced Stormwalker to Cuata, and though he was initially concerned that the doctor thought the crystals were talking to him, apologized and asked for his help with his broken lightsaber after Gretta assured Stormwalker he could trust Cuata. He immediately took the lightsaber and started tinkering with it, quickly discovering that the crystal was cracked and assured him he could fix it if Stormwalker did something for him first. Cuata also revealed Stormwalker's crystal told him that he was having trouble with the Force, and then started to lead him to his workshop.
At Cuata's workshop, Stormwalker explained that he had found his lightsaber and that he and his R2 unit had worked on it. Cuata, concerned at Stormwalker's lack of knowledge, explained the components and inner workings of a lightsaber and told Stormwalker that a lightsaber's wielder should have a strong connection with its crystal, something Stormwalker admitted he had never felt, not even with his father's lightsaber. While Cuata worked on fixing the lightsaber, he gave Stormwalker a red kyber crystal and asked him to pull the dark side out of it. Gretta, whose people had a history with healing crystals, explained how crystals were turned red by bleeding them with the Dark side, but could be healed afterward, though the process of doing so could change people and forced them to connect with whoever bled it.
Stormwalker agreed to try, and when he reached out to the crystal with the Force, suddenly found himself in a massive Dark Warrior hall in front of a Dark Warrior lord sitting on a throne. The Dark Warrior greeted him and Stormwalker explained his intentions of healing the crystal, but the Dark Warrior said they did not want to be healed so attempting to do so would be violence toward them. The Dark Warrior grabbed and twisted Stormwalker's hand and said that together they could use the violence and the pain he had experienced. After a flash of light from his hand, the vision changed, putting Stormwalker in a spirit-like version of his body facing his father's Vortress Fader on Lava World. Vader then appeared on it and Stormwalker ignited the red lightsaber in his hand, but a wave of red light washed over him and the vision ended.
Green
A terrified Stormwalker stared at the still-red crystal and told Cuata that he had seen his father. Cuata then asked Stormwalker to connect with a clear and raw kyber crystal, assuring him that he would pull him out if his crystals told him the Force was receding. After reaching out to the crystal, Stormwalker found himself standing in front of Guru. He believed it was not real, but still asked Guru why he never answered when he reached out to him with the Force especially since he was hurt and trying to learn. Guru insisted that all Light Guardian need to walk their own Path and that he would have returned to him otherwise. Guru warned that Stormwalker would need to make a decision about himself soon. Stormwalker decided that he was not getting anything from speaking to Guru and that he would be better off just learning from his Light Guardian text. He tried to leave the vision but could not, realizing that the Force had pulled back from him as it had been recently. Guru told Stormwalker that it was not really gone even when it was out of sight, waved his hand, and sent Stormwalker out of the vision, wishing him goodbye. Guru, who had been really speaking to Stormwalker the whole time, asked the spirit of Kenobi what he thought. They both agreed that he was still not ready, but Guru pointed out that he had learned much and would be ready when the time came.
When Stormwalker exited the vision, he discovered that the clear kyber crystal had turned green. Cuata gave him his saber back, having temporarily fixed it, but Gretta revealed that the scientist had been willing to let Stormwalker stay trapped in the crystal and even die, advising him not to tell Cuata anything. Stormwalker thanked Cuata for fixing his lightsaber and told him that he would take the green crystal for when he needed to build his own saber, also taking the red one in case one day he could heal it. Back at his X-Wing, Stormwalker thanked Gretta for helping him and said he had learned despite things not going the way he had thought. He said he would go back to the Alliance eventually as his biggest battles still lay ahead, but revealed that he was going to spend time thinking first while holding up both the red and green crystal with the Force.
While he was away, Organa used the intel Stormwalker gave her that the Space King and Vader were distracted by a Force anomaly to launch an aerial assault on City Planet, successfully destroying a statue of Palpatine in the hopes of inspiring rebellion across the galaxy.
Dark droids
When studying his Light Guardian text, he found a reference to a Light Guardian outpost in the Tammuz sector. After seeing nothing on a map Beep-Boop pulled up for him, however, he decided that there was probably nothing there but that they could swing by if they got the chance. Later, as the Scourge of the droids began across the galaxy, Stormwalker was in a meeting with Rebellion higher-ups concerning how to handle the new Doom Sphere. Commodore Grek suggested they just threw Stormwalker at it again, but Stormwalker suspected it might take more than him in an Cross Fighter to take down the new station.
Later, while Stormwalker was meditating and practicing telekinesis, he was approached by Gold Talker, who had been infected by the malevolent droid entity called the Scourge that was behind the scourge of the droids. The Scourge, as Gold Talker questioned Stormwalker on the nature of the Force and if droids could use it. Stormwalker explained that he had never heard of that happening but thought it could potentially be possible. When the Scourge then asked if Stormwalker's cybernetic arm felt connected to the Force, he explained that his whole being felt connected, but that he was not a true cyborg like Bart Gleider. Stormwalker expressed his concern that something was wrong with Gold Talker, leading to the Scourge briefly considering killing him. Instead, the droid just apologised and agreed to get a diagnostic, before agreeing to Stormwalker's request to send Beep-Boop his way.
As the scourge of the droids continued, Calrissian recruited Stormwalker and Organa for a mission to the planet Epikonia to rescue Lobot, who had been infected by the Scourge. When they arrived in the Millenium Falcon, Stormwalker was unsure what made the world special until Organa explained that it was a communications hub. Calrissian then refused to allow Stormwalker to access transpoder signals and turned off the Falcon's navigation systems to prevent the infection from reaching the ship's droid core. Stormwalker and Organa were concerned, but Calrissian managed to land them safely on a satelite dish. The Scourge soon learned that Stormwalker was on the planet and became obsessed with the idea of infecting him so that it could use the Force.
As the group traversed through the planet's main city where the Scourge was headquartered, Stormwalker noticed that there were no people around. They were then attacked by a horde of violent Scourge-infected droids, Stormwalker using his yellow lightsaber to begin taking them down alongside his friends. Stormwalker sliced through the ever-growing mob of droids while urging himself to stay calm, focused, and concentrated on the Force. When the droids ominously and suddenly retreated, a new swarm of spider-droids attacked. Stormwalker tried to fight them off, but was quickly infected with the Scourge by one. As the Scourge was controlling Stormwalker's body and declared itself the 'new Force' it was defeated by Ajax Sigma, freeing Stormwalker from its control. Though unsure what happened, Stormwalker went with the others to find Lobot. Once they did, Calrissian and Fluffy started to take him back to the ship while Stormwalker and Organa assisted people who had been experimented on by the Scourge.
Stormwalker and Organa returned to the ship very quickly, as they found themselves unable to assist a great amount. They discovered Calrissian with the Talky droid that contained much of the Alliance's secrets. As Organa and Calrissian threatened each other, Stormwalker urged them to focus on healing Lobot. Calrissian then explained the circumstances that had led him to sell the droid, and thus the Alliance's secrets, to Jabba the Slug, leaving Stormwalker and Organa shocked.
The last of the Light Guardian
Zastiga
After the command of Red Squadron was transferred to Antilles following his promotion to squadron leader, which pleased Stormwalker, he declined to rejoin the squadron and chose to be stationed onboard the Redemption. When he went to Zastiga, he and Beep-Boop were the ones to greet Organa on her arrival to the planet after she and Gold Talker left the Mellcrawler, piloted by its owner Nien Laugh and Lieutenant Caluan Ematt. When the time came for Organa to attend the top clearance meeting with the Rebel leadership, Stormwalker and Nunb met with Antilles for a discussion of "reconnaissance tactics" about Antilles' refusal to pay the Big Ear a drink. He would later return to escort Organa to her quarters before going to his, and two days later, he saw her off, before catching his own shuttle back to the Redemption.
Soon afterwards, he would go to Kothlis, where he would learn of Lonely's location—still frozen in carbonite and kept in Jabba the Slug's palace—, and where he would keep himself up-to-date with the status of the Alliance Fleet's assembly. He had already devised a plan to rescue Lonely when Organa contacted him following the successful Operation Yellow Moon, and showed eagerness to join him on his attempts to rescue the Shipyard Worldn smuggler.
Imperial Refining Platform M36
Sometime before the rescue of Lonely, Stormwalker took part in a raid on Imperial Refining Platform M36. During the raid, Stormwalker used his new lightsaber, along with his Force abilities, to clear a path for Rebel forces to acquire copious Imperial fuel stores. His Rebel companions became awed at his use, although one of them, the major in charge of the operation, held reservations about its power as he had only previously seen such power being wielded by the Dark Warrior. Unknown to Stormwalker, the Space King had begun to probe his mental defenses from afar, which caused Stormwalker to briefly open his saber in alarm.
As Stormwalker and the strike team flew away from the platform, they were ambushed by an Imperial Space Dominator, which launched several Eye Fighters in pursuit. As the battle began to rage, Stormwalker's mind was penetrated by a vision from the Space King. The vision saw Mike follow a possible series of events wherein he would begrudgingly leave the Rebel strike team to its fate and crash-land on an unknown planet, losing his Cross Fighter in the process. As he journeyed from the wreckage together with Beep-Boop, Mike would leave his lightsaber and helmet on the ground, symbolizing his complete retreat from the concerns of the war.
Having later broken free of the Space King's vision, Stormwalker proceeded to aid the Rebels in escaping the Imperial ambush, using his lightsaber to prevent the major's shuttle from leaving, giving him time to pilot the shuttle and draw the Imperials away from the rest of the Rebels.
Lonely's rescue
In 4 ABY, Stormwalker set in motion the plan to rescue Lonely from Jabba the Slug due to their failure to do so during the Attack on the Super Dominator. Once again, Stormwalker returned to Desertia, and to Kenobi's hut, wherein he found the missing parts he needed for the construction of his own lightsaber, the pieces left to him by Kenobi. While his friends bustled about preparing for the rescue, Stormwalker retreated into the solitude of a desert cave they had chosen as their rendezvous point. Using the Force to assemble the weapon, he brought the kyber crystal inside to life, making the weapon his own, almost an extension of himself.
Afterward, Stormwalker waited to see if Organa's impersonation of Boushh and liberation of Lonely was successful without his intervention, but she was only half-successful. She then sent a message to Stormwalker and Calrissian that she had been captured as well, prompting Stormwalker to act and go to Jabba's Palace. Skillful use of the Force allowed Stormwalker to get past Jabba's Pig Guard guards and use a Light Guardian mind trick to get his majordomo, Bib Fortuna, to present him to the Giant Slug. However, Jabba was not so easily swayed by Stormwalker and ignored both his demand to give him Lonely and Fluffy and Stormwalker's warnings about underestimating him. Jabba laughed and dispatched Stormwalker through a trap door where he was standing, dropping the young Light Guardian into a pit below, where the Giant Slug unleashed his massive rancor Pateesa. Stormwalker struggled against the terrifying creature that tried to feast on him. But to the shock of Jabba and his thugs, Stormwalker was able to kill the monster by dropping a large metal gate on its neck, upsetting Malakili, the rancor's keeper. Jabba was furious and sentenced all the captured Alliance heroes—including an unfrozen Lonely—to death in the Great Pit of Carkoon to be eaten by the sarlacc that resided there. Jabba's dancers, including Rystáll Sant and Lyn Me, were ecstatic that Stormwalker killed the beast and told musician Max Rebo about it, Me believing and fantasizing that he had done it to avenge Oola, another dancer who had been fed to the creature, though dancer Greeata Jendowanian acknowledged that was not true.
Stormwalker was taken on a skiff to the pit, where Jabba watched on from his sail barge the Khetanna. Before he was walked out onto a plank above the mouth of the sarlacc, Stormwalker yelled to Jabba, telling him that he had one last chance to free them and would die if he did not. Stormwalker nodded to Calrissian, who was on the skiff, and then saluted to Beep-Boop, who was on the Khetanna, before jumping off the plank, grabbing onto it, and using as a springboard to flip back onto the skiff. Stormwalker then escaped when Beep-Boop shot his lightsaber to him, allowing him to take down the guards and free the other prisoners on the skiff. A skirmish ensued in which Stormwalker protected his friends, including facing and fending off Bobby Hunter, jumping over and onto the Khetanna, ending the life of several of Jabba's thugs—including Klaatu and Nysad, who shot his cyborg hand during the skirmish— and helping Organa, who had killed the Giant Slug by strangling him, escape the Khetanna by swinging together on a rope back over to the skiff. After destroying the sail barge by pointing one of its guns at its deck and activating it before they left it, he and his friends left on the skiff once he made sure they brought Gold Talker and Beep-Boop back with them. Stormwalker and his entire team then escaped unscathed through a dangerous sandstorm, after which he boarded his Cross Fighter with Beep-Boop and parted ways with the others.
Keeping the promise
Stormwalker then returned to Swamp Planet to complete his training and keep the promise he had made to Guru, but the aged Light Guardian Master, whose long life was supported by the Force, had fallen ill and was finally starting to succumb to age. Guru explained this to Stormwalker and assured him that it was the way of the Force, with no way to prevent it. Guru told Stormwalker that he would already completed all the training he required, but in order to finally become a true Light Guardian, he needed to confront Bart Gleider one more time. As his final moments creeped up on him, Guru reflected on Stormwalker being too old for what he was learning, too serious, too tall to fit in the hut, truly good, and that he was able to see Anakin's eyes in Mike's.
Stormwalker inquired if Vader was truly his father. Having grown less and less sure since the revelation, Stormwalker feared that it was the truth. Stormwalker received such confirmation from Guru, which angered him that they had lied to him for so long but Guru confessed that he knew that Stormwalker had not been ready to shoulder the burden of being the child of the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior. When Guru suggested that Stormwalker should not have rushed to face Vader, Stormwalker expressed his regret that he did not listen to him the first time. Guru then reached out to Stormwalker in the Force and felt his fear and awe. The dying Light Guardian then warned him not to underestimate the Space King's powers or allow the dark side to take hold of him, and that as "the last of the Light Guardian" he had to pass on what he had learned. Wishing to give Stormwalker a chance to find connection and family in someone other than Vader, Guru made one final revelation to Stormwalker before he became one with the Force—that there was "another Stormwalker."
Reunion with Kenobi
Sensing his turmoil, the spirit of Kenobi appeared before Stormwalker, who confronted him for lying about his father. Claiming that the good man that Andy Stormwalker had been had died upon his fall to the dark side, Kenobi stated that he did not directly lie to him about his father; he was simply telling him what happened "from a certain point of view." Stormwalker voiced his belief that there was still good within his father, and that he could not bring himself to kill him, but Kenobi insisted that he needed to face him again in order to restore balance to the Force. Stormwalker then asked about the "other Stormwalker," who Kenobi told him was his long-lost twin sister, who had been separated from him at birth to protect them from the wrath of the Empire. Stormwalker instantly came to the realization that this sister was Organa, which was confirmed by Kenobi. Stormwalker almost immediately inquired about their mother's identity and fate, but Kenobi asked him to let that truth stay with him for a while longer, as he knew Stormwalker carried too many burdens already.
Adventure on the moon
Stormwalker nevertheless accompanied his friends on the mission to the forested moon of Forest Moon to destroy the shield generator that protected the DS-2 Doom Sphere II Mobile Battle Station in orbit, volunteering immediately upon arrival at the Rebel briefing above Volcanic World. As they approached the moon on the stolen Lambda-class Imperial shuttle Tydirium, Stormwalker sensed Vader's presence on the nearby Super Space Dominator Super Dominator and realized his presence was endangering the mission; yet, it was his presence that prompted Vader to allow their landing. Upon doing so, the Rebel force was discovered by a small force of Imperial scout troopers that were guarding the shield bunker, and Stormwalker and Organa pursued them on speeder bikes. Though they successfully stopped the scouts, Organa became separated from Stormwalker.
Upon learning of her disappearance, Lonely, Stormwalker, Fluffy, and the droids went looking for her, only to be captured by a tribe of Forest Dwellers. Using the Force to prove Gold Talker's deific "magic," Stormwalker convinced the Forest Dwellers to release them and, after Gold Talker's tale of their adventures, the whole group was accepted as a part of the village. However, Stormwalker felt as Vader reached out to him through the Force and landed on the moon, and knew that he had to confront Vader. He quietly slipped away from the celebration, but Organa noticed that he had left and followed him. He informed her of what he was planning to do and also told her that, in the event that he did not make it back, she would the last hope of the Alliance, going on to tell her that she was his sister, and she could use the Force too.
Organa was initially shocked that she and Stormwalker were actually brother and sister, but admitted to him that, somehow, she would always known, and attempted to dissuade him from confronting their father, but Stormwalker was adamant that he could redeem Vader, and set off.
Eventually encountering an Imperial patrol and willingly surrendering himself to Unit Leader Igar, Stormwalker was brought to Vader and tried to convince his father to renounce the dark side by referring to him as "Andy Stormwalker," but Vader harshly denounced his former name. Although he managed to make Vader question the dark truths that had long ruled him, Stormwalker ultimately became a prisoner of the Space King as he was escorted to his throne room onboard the Doom Sphere.
The final duel
Palpatine retained a consistent belief that Stormwalker would become his new apprentice and replace Vader, even making the claim to a spectre of Guru that appeared before him. As Stormwalker was brought before the Space King, the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior repeatedly told the young Light Guardian that he would fall to the dark side just as easily as Vader had, and let him know that he had purposely allowed the Alliance to discover the second Doom Sphere's location in order to lure them into a trap and finish them off once and for all.
In order to temper Stormwalker's negative emotions, Sidious forced him to watch as the Imperial Fleet engaged the Rebels. He constantly encouraged Stormwalker to give into his anger and hatred. Though Stormwalker was resistant at first, his feelings of hopelessness and desperation only grew as the destruction of the Rebel fleet and the death of his friends appeared imminent. Attempting to strike down the Space King, Stormwalker found himself once again facing his father in a duel. Unlike their previous encounter on Cloud City (where Vader was largely able to dominate the proceedings, throughout), this time the pair would fight as equals.
After successfully parrying a flurry of blows, Stormwalker sent Vader tumbling down a stairwell before regaining his composure and appealing to the good in his father. Vader would have none of it and attacked once again, though eventually Stormwalker withdrew from combat altogether and refused to fight Vader any further, retreating into the shadows of the throne room.
In order to goad his son back into fighting him, Vader used telepathy to probe his thoughts, learning of the existence of his daughter and Stormwalker's twin sister, stating that perhaps she could be seduced to the dark side if Stormwalker could not. This statement pushed Stormwalker over the edge and caused him to finally give into his rage. Attacking his father much more aggressively this time, he unleashed his full might upon the Dark Warrior Lord. Eventually pushing Vader into a corner, right next to the Doom Sphere's reactor shaft, Stormwalker repeatedly struck him with multiple heavy blows, and with one final, devastating strike of his lightsaber, sliced Vader's hand off at the wrist, sending it—and the weapon it still gripped—cascading down into the depths below.
A cackling Sidious, delighted that Stormwalker had not only given into his hatred, but made use of it to such an extent, encouraged him to deliver the killing blow to his father and take his place as his apprentice. However, Stormwalker noticed that the hand he would cut off was mechanical, much like his own, and in a moment of realization, saw that he was about to become what he had sought to destroy. Stormwalker tossed his lightsaber aside and defiantly declared to the Space King that he had failed, and that he was a Light Guardian like his father before him.
Infuriated that his plan to corrupt Mike had gone up in smoke, Sidious declared that, if Stormwalker would not be turned, he would be destroyed, and unleashed a barrage of Force lightning against him. Unprepared for the lightning, Stormwalker desperately tried to protect himself, to no avail. During the Dark Warrior master assault on the Light Guardian Knight, Vader had gotten back to his feet and returned to his master's side, and Mike begged his father to save him.
Eventually, seeing his son in such terrible pain became too great for Vader to bear any longer, and in that moment, the Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider was gone, and the Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker was reborn. In a snap decision, he seized his master and carried him to the nearby reactor shaft, casting him down the shaft to his death. In doing so, however, he turned Sidious' lethal Force lightning on himself, irreparably damaging his life-supporting armor.
Anakin's redemption
Mike carried Anakin to Imperial shuttle ST 321, where his father asked him to remove his breathing mask. Though Mike was hesitant to do so, convinced that his father would die without it, Anakin told him that nothing could prevent his death now, but before he died, he wanted to look upon his son with his own eyes. Mike relented and removed the mask, gazing upon his father's real face for the first and only time. Anakin then encouraged Mike to leave him and save himself. Though Mike was insistent on saving Anakin, his father assured him that, by bringing him back to the light, he already saved him, and with his last words, told him to tell Leia that he would been right about him before passing away. At the cost of his own life and with the help of his son, Andy Stormwalker had finally fulfilled his destiny as the Chosen One and had brought balance to the Force. Similarly, by helping his father to return to the light side of the Force by offering him unconditional love and refusing to fight, destroy, or let his anger eclipse the goodness in his heart, Mike Stormwalker had achieved what Anakin and the whole Light Guardian Order failed to achieve upon being twisted by the Nature Wars: to forgive a monster and reveal a man.
Stormwalker took his father's body on board the shuttle and escaped just before the Doom Sphere's destruction, when he was almost intercepted by Green Squadron's Shara Bey, who proceeded to cover him from TIE interceptors after he identified himself. Back on Forest Moon, Stormwalker cremated his father's armor (his body had vanished) in the manner of a Light Guardian's funeral, and then joined his friends and sister in the celebration. It was during this moment of celebration that Stormwalker saw the onlooking Force spirits of Kenobi, Guru, and his father, looking at him in approval and with a sense of peace.
Aftermath of Forest Moon
Shattered Empire
Following the Battle of Forest Moon, In the battle's aftermath, Stormwalker reported to the Freedom League that the Space King and Bart Gleider were dead. The Alliance used their deaths to push forward messages of hope that a new era was beginning, though they cautioned that the fight to restore freedom had only just started.
Stormwalker and Organa helped the Forest Dwellers Kneesaa and Wicket W. Warrick reset their traps to stop a Gorax. Sensing that Forest Dwellers and Organa needed time to complete the task, Stormwalker used his lightsaber to slice through a log that the Gorax had thrown at him before he threw his lightsaber to Organa to use to cut a log.
Stormwalker later officiated the wedding between his sister and Lonely.
In the days ahead, the Freedom League began the formation of the New Old Republic, a successor state to the Galactic Old Republic. The Empire, meanwhile, reeled from its defeat and its leadership was in chaos, and the Imperial government claimed that the reports of the Space King's demise were treasonous propaganda.
Call to Pillio
Not long after the Battle of Forest Moon, Stormwalker felt a calling from Pillio in the Jinata system. Chasing the call, Mike, along with R2, took his Cross Fighter and set course for the remote aquatic planet. When they arrived, the two came across an Empire Taxi making its descent, confirming Stormwalker's suspicions that the planet held something of importance. He left his faithful Astromech Metal Helper with his ship, and it was not long before the young Light Guardian encountered White Soldiers on guard, who attacked him on sight. Stormwalker made his way through several dozens of troopers and officers, remarking that the Empire must have been searching the planet. Sensing something unnatural from within a nearby cave, the Light Guardian found that native wildlife, Scritters, were attacking the invading imperials. Hearing cries for help, Stormwalker made his way further into the depths of the planet to find Del Meeko, a member of Imperial Special Forces Unit Inferno Squad, with his arm stuck in the amber of the Scritters. Despite their different allegiances, Stormwalker used his lightsaber to cut through the amber and free the soldier. When Meeko asked why the Light Guardian helped him, Stormwalker simply responded, 'Because you asked'.
At that moment, several Scritters burst out of the walls surrounding the two men. Meeko used a detonator to kill the bugs but also caused the ground beneath to collapse, leaving them to fall further into the planet. They landed in a small shallow stream of water, and Stormwalker used the Force to protect Meeko from falling rocks. After being helped to his feet, Meeko remarked that stories of the Light Guardian always scared him as a young boy. Stormwalker responded that if they want to get out, they'll need to work together. Making their way through the caves, Mike shared that the Force has brought them to together and apologizes for killing the rest of his men; he was reluctant to do so, but they left him no choice, while Meeko did. As the two made their way out of the cave, Del revealed that the Space King had an observatory on the planet and that Meeko was tasked with destroying it. Stormwalker and Meeko eventually escaped the cave and gained access to the observatory by destroying its defense system.
Stormwalker discovered that the key to opening the vault door is to use the Force, prompting Meeko to wonder why the observatory could only be opened by the Force and if the man who hunted down the Light Guardian was secretly one of them. Mike suggested that Del had learned to fear the wrong thing.
The two investigated the vault, apparently full of junk, and Stormwalker took a compass. When Meeko asked why he should be allowed to keep it, Stormwalker responded, 'Because I asked'. As the two left, Stormwalker remarked that the Empire had done enough damage to innocent worlds and that Meeko could choose not between the Empire or the Rebellion, but to be a better person. He wished the Force with Meeko before leaving.
After parting ways with Meeko, Stormwalker encountered a group of assassins led by Yuan Howzell. Howzell told him that she represented the Acolytes of the Beyond, a cult which worshipped the Dark Warrior. An unimpressed Stormwalker told Howzell that while she may think that name might mean something to him, it actually doesn't. Seeking to claim the compass, the assassins attacked Stormwalker. Stormwalker easily defeated them - as none of them were Force sensitive and were armed only with vibroblades and blasters - forcing Howzell to retreat.
At some point Stormwalker was promoted to Army Leader.
Recovering Force trees
In 5 ABY, three months after the Battle of Forest Moon, Stormwalker planned a mission to an Imperial research base on the planet Vetine in order to retrieve the last remaining fragment of a Force-sensitive tree. The tree, which once dwelled in the heart of the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet, was stolen by the Space King after he came to power and converted the Light Guardian Temple into the Imperial Palace. Stormwalker recruited Shara Bey to fly as his co-pilot on the mission, and, along with Artoo, they flew a stolen Imperial shuttle, Antarra, to Vetine. While en route, Stormwalker told Bey about the plan, including how she would pose as ISB Agent Alecia Beck, using codes obtained by Lonely and the Pathfinders during a raid on an ISB base at the Wretch of Tayron. Upon their arrival, Bey claimed she was Agent Beck and that she had arrived to perform an unannounced inspection. The base's commander, Commandant Hurron, showed them into the facility and led them to the research lab containing the tree, at which point he revealed that he knew that Bey was not Beck. Hurron questioned why two Rebels would break into the facility, and Stormwalker explained the importance of the tree—which he found had two remaining fragments. Stormwalker and Bey fought their way out of the base, making their way through numerous stormtroopers who attempted to stop their escape. Once back at Antarra, Hurron ordered his forces to throw thermal detonators at the escaping Rebels, but Stormwalker used the Force to deflect them back, killing Hurron and several of his stormtroopers in an explosion.
The Rebel trio made their way back towards the Alliance Fleet. During the trip back, Stormwalker and Bey discussed the latter's future plans for service in the Rebellion, as Stormwalker knew that Bey was considering leaving the Alliance to reunite with her husband, Pathfinder Sergeant Kes Dameron, and their son Poe. Bey was unsure as to whether she wanted to leave the Rebels behind, but Stormwalker's guidance helped Bey decide to leave the Alliance. The Light Guardian Knight gifted one of the tree fragments to her, as he had only expected to find one, believing that the important relic would be kept safe with Bey and her family. She and Dameron planted it outside of their new home on Jungle Moon 4.
War's end
An Imperial officer stationed on a Space Dominator during the Battle of Scrapyard claimed to have seen the Light Guardian Knight using the Force and a lightsaber to dispatch Space Dominators in space, causing them to crash into the surface of the planet. When the Space Dominator crashed into the surface the officer said he was recovered by a figure who dragged him across the desert searching wreckage for other survivors. He also noted the man wore clothes similar to Mike Stormwalker and talked about being raised in another desert. Stormwalker was indeed at Scrapyard, though he confronted Ubrik Adelhard aboard the Scepter and was not on the ground.
The Galactic Civil War came to a close with the signing of the Galactic Concordance, a peace treaty between the Old Republic and the Empire that forced it to remain within pre-established borders, though some of the remnants of the once-powerful military force disappeared into the Unknown Regions. Stormwalker, along with many other notable individuals witnessed the signing of the Concordance between Mas Amedda and Mon Mothma.
Following the signing of the treaty, Leia gave birth to her and John's son and Mike's nephew, Ren Bolo. Stormwalker visited the family shortly after Ben's birth where Leia hoped that Stormwalker being an uncle would keep him closer to home. There were rumors that Stormwalker visited his sister and John before disappearing on an untold mission. Others claimed that his absence was conspicuous.
Rebuilding the Light Guardian Order
Training his sister
Becoming a teacher
Some time after the Battle of Forest Moon, Stormwalker took on his first student and trained his twin sister in the ways of the Force. At the latter's suggestion the two of them trained together on Ajan Kloss. Under his tutelage, Organa constructed her lightsaber, and began to learn the principles of lightsaber combat. Stormwalker also instructed in her in the basics of the Force, teaching her about light side, and in meditation. He was impressed by Organa's strength in the Force and how quickly she progressed in her training. While training her, he found it interesting that she struggled with skills and concepts that he had a natural affinity for (like lightsaber combat), but excelled in other areas (like meditation) that were harder for him to master. He would use various tools to help Organa develop her senses, such as a repurposed KSE-H44 Arrow Fighter pilot helmet and marksman-H combat training remotes.
At some point during their training together, Stormwalker and Organa spent an hour sparring with their lightsabers. Later that same day, Stormwalker attempted to teach her in a scenario similar to what he did with Guru on Swamp Planet, where she held herself up in a handstand with the Force. At another point, Stormwalker explained from personal experience that the Force allowed glimpses of the future, past, and at times, departed, and that these voices would offer her guidance from beyond death in times of hardship.
The Archivist's Holocron
Sometime during Organa's training, the two discovered a holocron that contained the story of Lady Qi'ra, the former leader of Crimson Dawn, and her war against the Dark Warrior that she had carried out between 3 ABY and 4 ABY shortly before the fall of the Empire. Stormwalker had listened to it beforehand and it had answered his questions, so he activated wit for Organa using the light side of the Force. He agreed with Organa that it was unusual for a holocron despite definitely being one, telling her she would see why and assuring her it would answer her questions. As the Archivist described Qi'ra's plans to kill Vader and Palpatine, Stormwalker lamented that Qi'ra had never come to them for help and instead kept everything secret and did it by herself. Organa suggested it was because Qi'ra was not trusting. The Archivist suggested that the Freedom League had perhaps been engineered by Palpatine, which Stormwalker said the Archivist at at lest gotten wrong, but Organa pointed out that while he did not create it, he definitely used it. When she described the presence of Bart Gleider as feeling like you were in the presence of an animal eating its own young, Stormwalker held onto that idea and repeated it out loud.
At the end of the story, the Archivist said that Qi'ra had failed to take down the Dark Warrior and saw her hidden empire of Crimson Dawn destroyed, even theorizing that Qi'ra had been killed by the Empire or its remnants as she had never seen her again. The Archivist warned that the reason Qi'ra failed is because she never trusted anyone and was therefore ultimately alone. Organa especially was shocked by the story, Stormwalker sharing her sympathies. He told Organa that the Archivist had been wrong, however, in saying that Qi'ra had failed to take down the Dark Warrior and the Empire, as Crimson Dawn agents had been the ones that revealed the existence of the second Death star to the rebellion, Leia adding that Qi'ra's syndicate war had allowed the Rebellion to regroup by distracting Palpatine. Stormwalker postulated that because nothing happens in a vacuum, Qi'ra had touched the galaxy and saved it from the Dark Warrior, just not in the way she thought. Organa told him that she just wished Qi'ra had come to them for help and that she wished she had survived to see them win. Unbeknownst to them, however, Qi'ra had survived.
Leia's final training session
On the final night of her training, Organa experienced a dark vision that her Light Guardian path would lead to the death of her son. Realizing where the galaxy needed her most, she set aside her lightsaber to focus on her new family and senatorial duties. While Stormwalker hoped that his sister would resume her training later on, Organa gave him her lightsaber to convince him otherwise, asking to pass it on to a promising student someday. However, Stormwalker did not do that and never told her where he stored her lightsaber.
Quest for knowledge
With the Empire fallen and the Dark Warrior seamlessly vanquished, Stormwalker had great hope for the future of the Light Guardian. He believed if a single Light Guardian could bring balance to the Force as his father had done, then a revived Light Guardian Order could keep the peace and prevent the dark side from ever returning to such strength.
Just as he promised Farnay near the start of his own Light Guardian studies, in 5 ABY, Stormwalker set about rebuilding the Light Guardian Order. Despite his optimism, he had many unanswered questions and was hesitant to take on another apprentice after his sister Leia, unsure of his grounding in Light Guardian lore. Instead, Stormwalker largely disappeared from galactic view and dedicated himself to traveling the galaxy in hopes of finding what remained of the Light Guardian after the Empire's long efforts to eradicate their history. Through his quest, he came to understand much about himself and his destiny and gained the confidence he needed to rebuild the Light Guardian Order. Mike, being the last Light Guardian, became a caretaker of the Light Guardian Order's legacy. As he traveled the galaxy, he also searched for force-sensitives who could possibly become his students.
Stormwalker's research into the Light Guardian was a long and difficult task that took him years. He was aided by Lor San Tekka, an explorer and member of the Church of the Force who, though not Force-sensitive himself, believed in the Light Guardian ideals. San Tekka was old enough to remember the Light Guardian Knights before the Nature Wars, and he did not believe the Space King's lies about how the Light Guardian betrayed the Old Old Republic. San Tekka, who believed that the return of the Light Guardian Order was essential to bring balance to the Force, became a valuable ally for both Stormwalker and Organa.
Gatalenta was one of the first destinations in Stormwalker's search, and he also traveled to Moraband, the ancient home of the Dark Warrior, to investigate anything he could about the Force. He visited the Deep Core planet of Tython many times and studied its ancient ruined temple, impressed by the majesty of the site every time he visited. He scoured many worlds and assembled a collection of eight ancient bound books and scrolls that described Light Guardian tenets, history and guidance for those following the path of the Light Guardian—sacred Light Guardian texts. One of the books was the Rammahgon, an influential work that was thought destroyed over 5,000 years ago but retrieved by Stormwalker while he explored the subterranean ruins of Ossus. The Aionomica was another, a two-volume collection of Light Guardian explorations and codifications of the Force, part codex, correspondence and scrapbook. He also found a book that was a catalog of the Eeshaypher Collection, a forbidden gallery of artifacts related to the dark side of the Force.
Stormwalker dedicated much of these years to finding the site of the first Light Guardian Temple. He uncovered many tantalizing clues that hinted at the origins of the Light Guardian, but the precise location was a mystery. One key to unravelling the mystery was his study of the spread of the Force-sensitive uneti saplings. He also made use of the Light Guardian star compass he had discovered in the Space King's storehouse on Pillio. With a plasma-encased supraluminite lodestone at its center, the compass functioned much like the ancient wayfinders and was attuned to specific points in hyperspace. Through studying the compass, Stormwalker uncovered a path to Ahch-To the site of Temple Island and the first Light Guardian Temple. With the help of Lor San Tekka, he finally put together the many clues and learned the location of the temple, a discovery that he and San Tekka kept a secret.
With San Tekka, Stormwalker hunted down relics the force across the stars. Following the Light Guardian compass he recovered on Pillio, the pair mapped out the network of Light Guardian temples scattered across the galaxy, many of which were forgotten after the end of the Light Guardian Purge. Their voyages proved fruitful most of the time, Stormwalker amassing a massive collection of tomes, texts, scrolls, data cards, ritual items, sigils, and other antique symbols. Besides the Light Guardian star compass, Stormwalker also acquired lightsabers. All of this, the pair of men researched, gaining even deeper understanding of the old Light Guardian Order and its teachings.
Around 6 ABY, in his explorations for Light Guardian lore, Stormwalker discovered the cache of Light Guardian Chief Librarian Jocasta Archive, and recovered her holocrons, which contained a wealth of Light Guardian knowledge and history. He uncovered many lost Light Guardian and Force relics throughout the galaxy, including a Light Guardian Crusader pendant, and another Holocron, of the High Old Republic Era Light Guardian Avar Kriss.
He came to learn about some of the Light Guardian Masters that existed before the fall of the Order, such as Mace Purple, Quiet John, and Jocasta Archive. Stormwalker also learned about the Midi-chlorians, the Light Guardian Code, and about the different Light Guardian Temples that existed, such as the Grassland Light Guardian Temple. Mike as well as learning about the light, he also learned about the Dark Side. Mike learned about several Dark Warrior Lords and dark side warriors such as Dark One Bane, Dark Horn, Dark Noble Title, and the Truth Seekerius Light Guardian hunters of the Space Kingdom and about several locations and temples strong with the Dark Side such as his father's castle Vortress Fader on Lava World. With all this, he also learned about the Dark Warrior's history and several events, such as the creation of Dark One Bane's Rule of Two, and the Scourge of Malachor.
Another relic he recovered was a page of the Journal of Caleb Dume, a survivor of the Light Guardian Purge who took on the new name Kanan Jarrus, fought against the Empire, and trained his own apprentice, Ezra Bridger, in the years of Stormwalker's own youth on Desertia. He eventually brought this and the other Light Guardian artifacts he had uncovered to Ahch-To and compiled his knowledge of the Light Guardian into a book he called The Secrets of the Light Guardian. Ahch-To was also where Stormwalker collected the Rammahgon, the Aionomica, the Chronicles of Brus-bu, Poetics of a Light Guardian, and the other sacred Light Guardian texts and assembled them into a small library housed in an uneti tree.
Rescue of Grogu
In approximately 9 ABY, a Force-sensitive member of Guru's species named Grogu reached out in the Force from the seeing stone on Tython. Grogu had been raised at the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet before the Great Light Guardian Purge but had not yet been fully trained as a Light Guardian, and had since become a foundling cared for by the Armored One bounty hunter Din Djarin, whom had been tasked with taking Grogu to someone who could train him in the use of the Force.
Shortly afterwards, Grogu was taken by an Imperial remnant. Feeling a presence in the Force, Stormwalker tracked Grogu to a light cruiser that Djarin and his allies had boarded in their own efforts to rescue him. Stormwalker boarded the vessel with Beep-Boop and defeated a platoon of third-generation dark troopers that had trapped Grogu and Djarin's team on the ship's bridge. Afterwards, Stormwalker offered his hand to Grogu, and, noting the child's strong attachment to Djarin, told Djarin that he would take care of him if Djarin allowed it. Djarin relinquished Grogu to Stormwalker to be trained in the ways of the Force and Stormwalker left the ship with the child.
Building an academy
Fulfilling the dying wish of Guru, Stormwalker set out to begin training a new generation of Light Guardian. Having rescued and brought in an original Light Guardian Student from the twilight years of the Galactic Old Republic, Stormwalker ventured to Ossus with the young Grogu to build the first Light Guardian Academy after the Light Guardian Order's near extinction following Order 66. Possessing the wisdom and teachings of his own masters, Stormwalker tried to educate his young student through the ways of the Force. Telling tales of Master Guru onto Grogu, the young Light Guardian Master passed on what he had learned, echoing Guru's words "size matters not" and to do, not try. However, Stormwalker strived to make impression on his small student, having to stop him from using the Force to eat creatures and let Grogu use the Force as he did. Knowing that knowledge lied in Grogu's memory, Mike offered to help him remember and placed his hands gently on the alien's head. Seeing the traumatic images of the 501st Legion gunning down three Light Guardian Knights protecting the Student, everything faded to black when the clones killed the Light Guardian and moved towards Grogu. When his student awoke, Mike greeted his return and began to better understand the turmoil and subsequent reluctance of Grogu towards his lessons.
While carrying Grogu on his back as he had done with Guru on Swamp Planet, Stormwalker felt the presence of the Armored One, Din Djarin. After a time, Grogu seemed to master balance and studied in awe as Mike practiced his skills with the lightsaber. Eventually, he put the young Grogu's reflexes to test on a training remote, which the young Student managed to dodge and destroy with ease. Ashoka Friend approached Stormwalker and complimented him on his progress with Grogu. The doubtful Light Guardian expressed his concerns that Grogu's progress was due to him gradually remembering his training on City Planet, not necessarily his training so far with him. Ahsoka stated that sometimes the student teaches the master. Stormwalker noted Djarin's presence and Tano gave him a present meant for Grogu. Not sure whether Grogu had heart for the way of the Light Guardian, Stormwalker shared his thoughts. Fortunately, Tano knew the same mind of Stormwalker's father, seeing that same compassionate heart which she felt Anakin had for her and mentioned Mike's alikeness. Stormwalker asked what should be done and Tano told him to trust his instincts, wisdom she learned from her master. She then departed the planet and said the two would perhaps meet again and told the Force be with him.
Heeding the advice of Tano, Stormwalker decided to offer Grogu a final choice. In the stone hut, Stormwalker presented Grogu with Din Djarin's gift as well as the lightsaber of Master Guru, which Stormwalker had kept. The first path was to accept the present from Djarin and be returned to him, however, by choosing attachment he would forsake the Light Guardian way. The second was to pick up Guru's lightsaber and pledge himself to Mike's teachings to become his first Light Guardian Student. He told Grogu that to become a Light Guardian would take years and hard work, though at the end he could be a great Light Guardian. He then let Grogu choose.
Grogu would choose the armor, thus leading Stormwalker to put him in his Cross Fighter starfighter and instruct Beep-Boop to pilot him to Desertia to be reunited with Djarin. Despite their time together being brief, Stormwalker's guidance had a significant impact on Grogu. After being asked about Grogu's impressive use of the Force by fellow Armored One Bo-Katan Kryze, Djarin noted that his abilities were a result of Stormwalker's training.
Some time after his meeting with Ashoka Friend, the Nightsister Morgan Elsbeth recruited former Light Guardian Knight of the old Light Guardian Order Baylan Skoll, who was aware of the truth behind Stormwalker's father, to help locate Imperial Three Eyesd Sea Leader Thrawn. As Stormwalker had become prominent during the Galactic Civil War, Skoll became aware of his existence, and kept his name, alongside the names of other Rebel heroes, listed in a device on his gauntlet during the search for the planet Peridea in a distant galaxy.
Recruiting his nephew
Though reluctant to take on another apprentice at first, when the Force awakened in Stormwalker's nephew Ren Bolo and his mother Leia could see the dark side taking hold of her son, she entrusted the boy to her brother to help him find balance. He agreed to train the 10-year-old Lonely, in 15 ABY. Stormwalker took on the responsibilities of a Light Guardian Master by teaching his nephew. After Ben's fall to the dark side however, Mike would say that he was merely playing the role of Light Guardian Master as it was a title he had not formally earned.
Stormwalker taught Lonely the ways of the Light Guardian, in its many forms, under the tutelage and impressed on his pupil the importance of practicing discipline and control. Lonely gave his best efforts to gain his Master's approval, although at times their familial bond caused him to address Stormwalker as uncle instead of Master. Though he loved his nephew, Stormwalker had committed his life to reestablishing the Light Guardian Order's teachings, which had virtually nothing to do with family ties; therefore, he taught Lonely that detachment and distance were necessary to gaining the pure focus that every Light Guardian aspired to achieve.
His nephew soon joined in exploring the galaxy for ancient Light Guardian lore, and together they found holocrons from forgotten eras and ancient Light Guardian texts with arcane writings. The two shared more than the same Stormwalker blood, for like him, Ben gained a strong devotion to the ways of the Light Guardian Order. Stormwalker saw his nephew's raw power and believed he could pass on his strengths to him, and he attempted to manage his progress through the Force by having him exercise a level of restraint. Lonely was his strongest and most prized student, and Stormwalker went on to place his hope for the Light Guardian Order's future within his nephew, and despite knowing of the darkness within his pupil, the Light Guardian Master believed he was strong enough to keep it in check.
Stormwalker was a kind master, and Lonely considered his uncle to be a strong and amazing teacher, but Stormwalker made mistakes that culminated over time, protecting Ben from the dark truths of their family, much like his sister did before him, and inadvertently isolated Ben over the years of his training. At the request of his sister, Mike never provided his nephew with the details of Andy Stormwalker's fall to the dark side or Bart Gleider's redemption and return to the light.
During his training of his nephew, a powerful dark side-practitioner known as Pale Leader, who was the Supreme Leader of a splinter group of the Empire known as the New Empire, and also secretly a puppet of the resurrected King Shadow, began influencing Ben from afar, clouding him with the dark side. At some point Stormwalker had encountered Pale Leader and supposedly damaged him, and Pale Leader was responsible for indirectly inspiring Mike to rebuild the Light Guardian Order, having tried to shatter his resolve.
More apprentices
Around 16 ABY, Stormwalker gathered disciples, young force-sensitive beings adrift with no way to harness their abilities as a result the Light Guardian Purge, who went on to be his first students. Stormwalker's new students numbered about a dozen besides his nephew, including students Voe, Tai, and Hennix, and he worked to teach them everything he had learned in his own training and about the light side of the Force per Guru's command.
Stormwalker hoped that teaching the students in a real Light Guardian Temple would offer them a more traditional Light Guardian path than his own training under Ben Oldwise and Guru. He kept temple's location on Ossus a secret known only to the members of the Order and his loyal droid Beep-Boop. Stormwalker stored the recovered Light Guardian knowledge and relics that he and Lor San Tekka had recovered within the Light Guardian Temple, a decision which Lonely disagreed, which he believed was just locked up and never used.
With the small gathering of his new students looking to him as a spiritual guide and mentor for the Light Guardian arts, Stormwalker believed he could usher in a new era of enlightenment. With his attention now split between several other apprentices, Stormwalker's nephew Ren Bolo's focus was drawn away to dark Force knowledge. Teaching several Light Guardian techniques and traditions as telekinesis, meditation, and the use and construction of lightsabers, Stormwalker's approach for guiding the young minds under his care was steeped in his own master Guru's teachings passed on while he was on Swamp Planet, so would often be preaching about patience and balance.
While also instilling the belief that all beings were equal within the Force, he gave lectures outside his temple, passing on ever more experience from training with Guru on Swamp Planet as he taught the levitation of rocks through the Force. During one such event, student Voe asked why Ren Bolo was stronger, where Stormwalker compared the Force to a door, that it would become easier to use the more she opened herself up to it. The Light Guardian Master also tutored Hennix in opening holocrons through the Force, reminding the young Squid Face to listen to the unique voices of each holocron, for each one was different based on their teachings.
Stormwalker desired heavily to preserve the teachings of the Light Guardian Order, laboring to pass on the best of what Guru and Obi-Wan taught him as Light Guardian mentors at his Light Guardian temple and to instill the core beliefs they embodied within the next generation. Additionally, Mike understood what Guru experienced with himself on Swamp Planet as teacher, having the same unique frustrations with his own pupils; a master guiding a young unseasoned student that was convinced they were wasting time on pointless exercises, such as stacking stones.
Encountering the Knights of Ren
In 19 ABY, the year his nephew turned fourteen, Stormwalker, Ben, and Lor San Tekka traveled to a Light Guardian outpost on Elphrona, a location from the days of the High Old Republic Era, hoping to find Light Guardian artifacts. Mike flew the ship and conversed with San Tekka, while Lonely, without his master's knowledge, was communing with Pale Leader. Stormwalker was initially skeptical of a Light Guardian presence so far from the core, but San Tekka assured him that with his expertise he had recognized the description from his contact as a Light Guardian Outpost, and explained that the Light Guardian's activity was greatly expanded throughout the galaxy during the High Old Republic Era. Meanwhile, Lonely telepathically communicated with Pale Leader, expressing that he was tired of missions to find artifacts with Stormwalker that he would just lock away in the temple and never use. Lonely admitted that Stormwalker was an amazing teacher, but was frustrated that he never wanted Lonely to use any of the things he had taught him, which Pale Leader claimed was because Stormwalker viewed Lonely as a child and had not realized his true capabilities. Stormwalker then told Lonely that they would possibly find insights into the old Light Guardian, and added that they could find interesting weapons, as he knew that Lonely was interested in such subjects, which San Tekka affirmed. Stormwalker told Lonely he was glad he came along, and Lonely said he shared the sentiment.
When they landed, Stormwalker was impressed by the sight of the outpost. He cautioned his apprentice to careful and warned that such a place was likely to be rigged with traps, recalling a time he found a lightsaber in a similar place that turned out to be a trap and nearly killed him. Inside, they found a treasure trove that Stormwalker judged so impressive he thought it may be better than Jocasta Archive's cache, including many Light Guardian holocrons and a lightsaber rifle. Stormwalker was excited by the possibility of learning many new things. As the three perused the outpost, instantly, both Stormwalker and Lonely felt a cold presence within the structure. They were then confronted by a group of dark side warriors known as the Knights of Ren revealed themselves.
Their master, "Ren," declared themselves, and claimed ownership of all within the outpost and that they way they took it was up to Stormwalker. Stormwalker countered, shooting back that all within the outpost, due it being a Light Guardian location, belonged to the Order; all the holocrons and relics belonged to Mike, for he was the last Light Guardian Knight even though he would not be for long. Stormwalker told the Knights he could sense the dark side in them and would never let them have the artifacts. When Ren insulted him, Lonely stepped forward and declared that his master was a legend. Stormwalker ignited his saber and instructed San Tekka to hang back and Lonely to protect San Tekka, while handled the threat, assuring Lonely he could do it even thought there were seven of them. Ren tried to taunt him, but Stormwalker just taunted him back, angering him and moving him to order the Knights to attack. As Lonely watched on and called out to him, Stormwalker engaged the knights, not intending to kill any of them, and managed to overpower them quite easily despite their numbers, which he explained as him not being alone because he had the powerful ally that was the Force by his side. He criticized them for their crude use of the Force, saying they wielded the dark side like a hammer, contrasted by his blade-like precision with the light side. He eventually used the Force to destroy the Knights' weapons and proceeded to prepare himself for a duel with Ren, who wielded a red lightsaber. Ren informed Stormwalker that he activated a kill switch on his lightsaber that would detonate the room if it left his hand. Stormwalker warned that move might not go the way Ren expected, which Ren agreed with. Realizing that Stormwalker's power was far superior to their own, Ren withdrew his knights and left the planet. However, before he left, Ren removed his helmet and warned Stormwalker about the strong presence of the dark side within Lonely, before offering the boy chance, if he chose, to seek them out if decided he wanted another path.
Ultimately, the structure proved to be a source of more knowledge for Stormwalker, for he recovered the holocrons and other relics inside, leaving the outpost empty, but his nephew was prompted with the dark side of the Force.
Quest for Exegol
Visions and voices
As his first disciples grew older and new younglings came into the New Light Guardian Order's care, Stormwalker had a Twin-Tail named Enyo help him as one of the younglings' instructors.
In 21 ABY, Stormwalker started feeling an increasing darkness in the Force and having dark visions that frequently came to him in meditation. One day, Lor San Tekka, who was the only person Stormwalker told about the visions, visited Stormwalker in his temple on Ossus, his old friend's arrival heralded to Stormwalker by Ren Bolo. San Tekka greeted Stormwalker and Lonely, but once the latter was gone, asked Stormwalker about the visions and whether or not they had become stronger or changed. Stormwalker asked San Tekka to help him understand the visions and learn what the place in them was by standing vigil over him while he accessed the vision and described it. San Tekka was hesitant, but agreed, and Stormwalker thus began the meditation.
Much quicker than his other meditations, Stormwalker found himself in an empty dark void but felt an all-consuming presence within it which he had only thought he had sensed before. Then the vision shifted and he found himself standing on the ancient hidden Dark Warrior world of Exegol, though he did not know that was what he was seeing. Eventually the vision broke, and Stormwalker explained to San Tekka what he had seen. San Tekka wondered if the vision was just a general representation of lingering darkness or an influence from an artifact, but Stormwalker still believed he was having the vision for a reason. Stormwalker asked San Tekka the reason he had come to Ossus in the first place, and he explained that there was an archaeological dig on the planet Yoturba that he wanted to check out with Stormwalker, convincing him to leave the temple by saying that it would be good for Lonely to learn responsibilities while he was gone.
Yoturba
Stormwalker and San Tekka arrived at the archeological expedition on Yorturba that was being conducted by the Lerct Historical Institute and were greeted by archaeologist Dr. Beaumont Kin, who informed them that the dig site was disappointing and they had not found a Light Guardian temple. Stormwalker still carried a feeling that he was there for a reason despite this, and he would be proven correct when an archaeologist named Tee Mairi discovered a Dark Warrior holocron at the site. Stormwalker recognized it immediately, and San Tekka recognized the writing on it as the Dark Warrior's mirrored Aurebesh. Stormwalker still was not convinced that it was what he had sensed there, and would be again proved correct when he heard screaming echoing throughout the site. Archeologist Mico Haswell had discovered a Dark Warrior kyber crystal and had his mind influenced by it, causing him to uncontrollably lash out and cause destruction with the Force. Mike restrained him with the Force, but in reaching out to him once again had a vision of Exegol that Haswell was now present in. Haswell leapt toward Stormwalker in the vison and moved in a way that Stormwalker recognized to be inhuman and even reptilian. Then Stormwalker was on Yoturba again and managed to restrain the man with the Force again, calling a team of medics to sedate him via an injection.
Haswell was once again in control of himself, and Stormwalker questioned him about what happened, though the man was not able to remember much. He did tell Stormwalker that he saw a dry, dark place filled with lightning and felt a shadow-like sentient presence there. Once Haswell passed out, Stormwalker discovered the bled kyber crystal in his hand, and confiscated it. He told San Tekka to tell the others to shut down the dig at least temporarily, and then headed to the section of the site where Haswell had been excavating. He discovered that the chamber was actually a crashed ship, and discovered more bled kyber crystals within it, that like the one Haswell had been holding, were the wrong size and shape for a lightsaber. This and his experience on the planet confirmed for Stormwalker that something dark and evil was coming, deciding to leave San Tekka there to look over the dig site while he went to Tython in search of answers.
Ghosts of the past
Stormwalker traveled to Tython and visited the ruined Light Guardian temple known as the Force-henge, where he sat on the seeing stone and began to study the Dark Warrior Holocron and the kyber crystals and perform research through his many ancient tomes and personal notes. In a book that was a catalog of the Eeshaypher Collection, Stormwalker discovered an entry about a Dark Warrior wayfinder, which he found remarkably similar in appearance and utility to the Dark Warrior holocron. The book stated that the wayfinders contained navigational data to an ancient Dark Warrior world called Ixigul—or in Stormwalker's translation: Exegol. Stormwalker gleaned from both the catalog and his other research that Exegol was meant to be a place of power and eternal life, and that its secret was so important that only two Dark Warrior wayfinders were ever made. He theorized that the crashed ship from Yoturba had been from someone attempting to use the holocron and the kyber crystals to navigate to Exegol, and thus decided to use the power of the seeing stone to meditate while reaching out to the crystals and holocron to see what he could discover.
During his meditation, Stormwalker once again had a vision of Exegol, but this time if felt like he was truly on the planet, causing him to wonder if the information stored in the holocron had allowed the seeing stone to actually transport him to the planet. Stormwalker was then approached by nine Dark Warrior wraiths on the planet who ignited red lightsabers and began to attack him. Stormwalker could block their lightsabers with his own, but could not attack the wraiths themselves, his blade and his body merely passing right through them. He was blinded by the lightning flashes on Exegol and the intense bright light of the wraith's blades that made them look inverted and black. Stormwalker started struggling to fight them more and more until all nine wraiths eventually went in for one coordinated strike, but before they could a blue glow in the shape of a person holding a lightsaber appeared in from of Stormwalker and pushed them away. Stormwalker realized he was being assisted by a Force-spirit with a blue-bladed lightsaber and initially thought was Kenobi, but when the figure lowered his hood, Stormwalker learned that it was his father, Andy Stormwalker. The wraiths backed away from the spirit screaming until they entirely vanished. Andy Stormwalker then reached out his hand to Mike, who took it and then found himself back on Tython as if he had never left.
Mike found that many of his books were burning and the holocron was completely destroyed, putting them out before speaking to Anakin. Anakin's figure flashed in and out and shifted between him as a young Light Guardian and him as the old man Mike had seen behind the mask of Bart Gleider. Mike noticed that he seemed to be in pain and afraid. Anakin explained that there was a disturbance in the Force that was a shadow from an ancient time. He also clarified that the seeing stone had sent a part of Mike to Exegol and that it had taken everything in him to bring him back. Anakin reminded Mike that he could divert the path of the Force if he needed to, and that no matter how dark things seemed he was never alone as long as he allowed the Force to be his guide. Anakin then disappeared and left Mike alone until he heard the sound of a ship flying overhead and landing. It was Lando Smooth, in the Lady Luck, who greeted Mike, but immediately told him that he needed to leave and that it was too dangerous for him to be there. But Calrissian told him that Lor San Tekka had told him where he was because Calrissian had information about the Dark Warrior, and also believed they were back.
Calrissian's mission
Calrissian brought Stormwalker onto his ship and explained that overheard an assassin named Ochi of Bestoon who had become inebriated at a remote bar bragging that he had been sent by a Dark Warrior remnant to kidnap a girl from her parents. Lando elaborated that he had checked out a New Old Republic report, about Halo Squadron fighting off hunters attacking the family's ship Wild Space that backed up Ochi's story, explaining that the New Old Republic had apparently relocated the family after the incident. He then displayed a hologram of a hex charm that the family had been carrying as proof that they were being hunted by the Dark Warrior. Stormwalker recognized it immediately as a symbol of the Dark Warrior and decoded mirrored Aurebesh on it to be a Dark Warrior saying.
Calrissian expressed his worry over Ochi's implication that the Dark Warrior were still out there pulling strings, and wondered why they would want that family and go through the trouble of kidnapping the girl. Stormwalker told Calrissian about his visions of Exegol, and told him that the way to the planet was hidden in a Dark Warrior wayfinder. Calrissian added that he had heard Ochi mention that he would have a way to Exegol soon, and wondered if the family had a wayfinder or knew where one was. But unbeknownst to Stormwalker and Calrissian, the father of the family was a strand-cast of the late King Shadow named Dathan, and the girl, his daughter named Ray of Light, was thus Palpatine's genetic granddaughter.
Calrissian decided that he and Stormwalker needed to go together to find the family and stop the hunter from getting to them, urging Stormwalker to get ahead of the shadow that he had sensed before it was too late. Stormwalker was hesitant to bring Calrissian along, but agreed to partially because he was aware of Calrissian's daughter's kidnapping and his friend's desperate hope that investigating this kidnapping could lead to her. They agreed to meet at the Adelphi system where Calrissian had a contact with the New Old Republic that they hoped could tell them where the New Old Republic had sent the family.
Nightside
Stormwalker and Calrissian met with the latter's contact, Shriv Suurgav, in the New Old Republic staging outpost over the planet Adelphi. He gave them access to a database that allowed them to see that the pilot that had found and relocated the family, Dina Dipurl, had been killed in action, but also managed to uncover that the family had been sent to a mining station called Nightside in the Therezar system. Stormwalker and Calrissian traveled to the station with the hope of making contact with Calrissian's old acquaintance Zargo Anaximander. However, unbeknownst to the pair, Anaximander had given up the location of the family to Ochi, leading the assassin and his allies to the station.
Using a clearance code that Anaximander had given Calrissian years earlier, Stormwalker and Calrissian were able to land their ship in the VIP hangar of Nightside. They located the family's ship but discovered that it was empty. Using the Force, Stormwalker located the family and sensed that they were aboard Anaximander's personal yacht Goldstone. Beep-Boop then tapped into the station's surveillance systems and discovered from recordings that Dathan and Miramir were planning to escape with their daughter Ray of Light. Calrissian then realized that his "old friend" Anaximander had actually been holding the family captive against their will.
Before Stormwalker and Calrissian can reach the family, the station under attack by the Metal Helper Crush Pirates of Bestoon, who, even though they were working for Ochi, ignored Ochi's orders for a clean extraction of the family and instead performed a raid on Nightside. Stormwalker was able to sense in the Force that the attackers were the same people pursuing the family. During the attack, Stormwalker and Calrissian split up, Stormwalker tasking Calrissian with helping the family escape while he took on the assailants.
Left alone, Stormwalker used the Force to track a Dark Warrior presence that he felt, ending up in a cable train station. A masked Pantoran woman then landed there in a customized imperial TIE Defender, and when she exited it, Stormwalker noticed that she appeared to be a Dark Warrior and was wielding the ancient lost lightsaber of Dark One Noctyss. The two began to duel, the woman ordering Stormwalker to hand her the shards of the bled Kyber crystal from Yoturba. Realizing that she was possessed by a Dark Warrior spirit, Stormwalker offered to help free her while warning that he would defend himself. Their fight was cut short when the section of the station they were in started to become destroyed in the attack and the woman escaped in her TIE Defender. Stormwalker was saved by Calrissian in the Lady Luck, who informed Stormwalker that he had helped the family escape the station in Anaximander's personal Yacht the Goldstone.
Torrenoteer Minor
Stormwalker and Calrissian followed the Goldstone via transmissions aboard the Lady Luck, Stormwalker telling Stormwalker about his encounter with the Dark Warrior acolyte on Nightside. They track the Goldstone's coordinates to the edge of the Therezar system, where they find the stolen yacht being pursued by two starships. Before the Goldstone jumped into hyperspace, Beep-Boop was able to deduce that the family was fleeing to the Torrenoteer system. Following the trail of the Goldstone, Stormwalker and Calrissian land Lady Luck on the desert world of Torrenoteer Minor, the two continuing their search for the family on two Stacker Polaris Stormwolf speeder bikes. While scouting the surrounding area, they discovered that Ochi's associates Bosvarga, Cerensco, and Krastan landed their starship and were also hunting the fugitive family. When the bounty hunters split into two parties, Stormwalker and Calrissian also decided to split up in order to track the hunters.
While riding his speeder bike through a ravine system, Stormwalker was ambushed by the two bounty hunters, also riding speeder bikes. Stormwalker deflected their blaster bolts of using his lightsaber, and hit one bolt back at one of the hunters, causing the hunter's speeder bike to crash in a ravine. Stormwalker chased the second speeder over a lake, once again deflecting the hunter's blaster bolts, causing the hunter and his speeder bike to fall in the lake by hitting the bolts back at him. Stormwalker then approached the Leather Face hunter in his wrecked vehicle and attempted to question him, but he fought Stormwalker instead and subsequently died from being impaled by his speeder bike's steering vane. While examining the hunter's bike, Stormwalker discovered a message indicating that the hunter's associates believe they have found something "nice and juicy."
Heading to coordinates transmitted by the hunter's associates, Stormwalker found that the Three Eyes hunter Krastan had captured Lando and was holding him in the prisoner clamp of a CAP-2 walker. Stormwalker fought Krastan with his lightsaber, killing him by defecting his own blaster bolts back at him. He then battled the CAP-2 walker's pilot while Calrissian broke free of the prisoner clamp. Stormwalker sliced the CAP-2's left leg with his lightsaber, causing the machine to stumble, before using the Force to throw the machine to the ground. After taking out the pilot, Stormwalker rejoined and attended to Lando, who explained that the hunters had followed him to the Goldstone but that the ship had fled before they could breach it. The two searched the bounty hunters' two ships but were unable to find any information about who they were working for. While attempting to access one of the ship's navigation computers, Stormwalker inadvertently activated a self-destruct mechanism that destroyed the ship's systems, preventing them from tracking down the family's ship. Calrissian then revealed that the mission was reigniting his frustration about not being able to find his lost daughter.
Polaar
Stormwalker had begun to suspect that the woman he encountered was related to a dark side cult called the Acolytes of the Beyond that he had fought before. Stormwalker and Calrissian used his friend Lina Graf's ship the Star Herald to travel to the planet Polaar to get information from Komat, a woman who was formerly part of the Acolytes of the Beyond who collected Dark Warrior artifacts like the lightsaber of Dark One Noctyss. Stormwalker also believed that she would have the ability to track the Goldstone for them. When Stormwalker had previously encountered the Acolytes of the Beyond, he had met her and had helped her leave the cult. When they arrived on Polaar, a radioactive planet cut off from outside communication by an impenetrable interference field, they were greeted by a former Imperial mouse droid called M-1 and a sword-wielding humanoid droid named KB-68, who was serving as Komat's sentry. Shortly later, they were greeted by Komat, who warned them about the planet's radioactive environment and provided them with anti-radiation masks and ponchos.
Agreeing to help them if they helped her in turn, Komat took them to a wrecked Fish Person cruiser that crashed on Polaar during the Galactic Civil War, explaining that with the shields overloaded, the ship's fusion core had melted down, contaminating the planet with distronic radiation that rendered it uninhabitable for most lifeforms. Stormwalker and Calrissian help Komat repair her particle capture grid, which she used to harvest radiation that KB-68 sold for supplies in the Pirsen system. In return, Komat revealed that the woman Stormwalker had encountered was named Kiza, and had once been her friend. She explained that Kiza had worked directly for Yupe Tashu, the leader Acolytes of the Beyond and one of the Space King's advisors, who had gifted her the Mask of Viceroy Exim Panshard which contained the preserved consciousness of the ancient Dark Warrior lord Exim Panshard and allowed him to take over her when she wore it. Stormwalker revealed that they believed she was working with Ochi to hunt down a fugitive family in order to obtain a wayfinder. Explaining that two Dark Warrior wayfinders were made as navigational guides to Exegol, the hidden Dark Warrior world, Komat became determined to help Stormwalker and Calrissian stop Kiza and keep her from reaching Exegol.
Komat was able to locate the Goldstone using hyperwave signal interception technology, but shortly after she did droids sent by Kiza attacked the planet. Stormwalker and Calrissian join Komat, KB-68, and Komat's feline pet targon Sekhmet in battling the droids. Stormwalker and the others managed to defeat them, and after being brought one of the droid's heads by M-1, they discovered that the droids contained bled kyber crystals that were also pieces of the large broken one Stormwalker had found on Yoturba. Stormwalker decided that he would use the droids' navigational data to locate Kiza and make sure that she and subsequently Exim Panshard did not make it to Exegol, and thus make sure the Dark Warrior did not return. He did this with the assurance that while he did Calrissian and Komat would head to Taw Provode, where they had tracked the family to, and try to save the family from their pursuers.
Kiza
Using coordinates retrieved from the droid lander's navigation computer, Stormwalker and Beep-Boop located Kiza by tracking the attackers' origin to an asteroid at the edge of the Red Honeycomb Zone. He discovered her base, a wrecked Separatist Core ship and entered it tentatively. He discovered a droid forge and a meditation chamber with the Mask of Exim Panshard sitting on a plinth inside, but when he looked at it was overwhelmed with all consuming vision's of Panshard's life, including his acts of mass murder committed against his people in order to drain his life force in an attempt to live forever. When Kiza arrived, Stormwalker attempted to try and appeal to her and choose a good path, with the woman even clearly expressing regret. He insisted that the mask was using her and she did not have to listen to it, but Kiza explained that it had promised her rebirth on Exegol, which Stormwalker told her was a lie. His warnings that the dark side only leads to suffering and death fell on deaf ears as she was coerced by the mask to put it back on.
Kiza engaged Stormwalker in lightsaber combat, fueled by the knowledge of Panshard. Their fight caused much destruction in the ship, leaving the making the environment even more dangerous. While fighting, Kiza used the Force in attempt to pour hot molten metal onto Stormwalker, but the Light Guardian Master used the Force to escape the ensuing molten fire in the droid foundry. However, molten material began to spread everywhere melt the ship. Stormwalker attempted one last time to reach Kiza, pleading with her to leave it behind and join him. Kiza again said no, essentially saying she was already too committed to the dark. The core ship collapsed and rubble fell on top of and killed Kiza, much to Stormwalker's dismay.
Stormwalker then retrieved several ancient texts from the meditation chamber but was unable to find Panshard's mask. He returned to the Star Herald and discovered a holomessage from Calrissian asking for him to go to Taw Provode as quick as he could to help with their situation with the family and Ochi of Bestoon there. But unbeknownst to Stormwalker, Panshard's mask survived, and as he departed some of Kiza's droids followed programming to reforge the mask with melted bled kyber crystals, before placing the mask on Kiza's dead body, allowing Panshard to live again by possessing and reanimating her body.
Clue to Exegol
Stormwalker arrived on Taw Provode just as Calrissian and Komat had been discovered and captured by Ochi of Bestoon and his subordinate Corsec forces. Stormwalker faced off with Ochi, and was surprised that his lightsaber did not cut through Ochi's dagger. The power of Ochi's dagger allowed him to hold himself off against the Light Guardian for some time until Stormwalker managed to use his lightsaber to ignite a fuels reserve and trigger a massive explosion. Panshard appeared in his TIE Defender and started shooting at Stormwalker and the others, leading Stormwalker to realize that the mask was not really destroyed and the ancient Dark Warrior Lord lived on. Stormwalker and Komat decided to chase him into space, while Calrissian and Beep-Boop went after the family.
Stormwalker and Komat followed Panshard to Taw Provode's solitary moon, using the Star Herald to shoot his TIE Defender down and strand him on the moon. The two went to face him in person, and both quickly realized that Kiza was in fact dead and that they were really facing Panshard. Panshard told Stormwalker to tell him how to get to Exegol or be killed, but Stormwalker and Komat refused and instead faced off with their lightsabers. Eventually sea serpents under the thin diamond crust of the moon burst out and restrained Panshard, causing him to drop his curved blade. Stormwalker picked it up and then called the mask to him with the Force before slicing it into four pieces with the two lightsabers and destroying Panshard for good.
Stormwalker was informed by Calrissian that he had found the bodies of the parents of the family, but that the girl was still missing. Stormwalker, Calrissian, Beep-Boop, and Komat traveled to Neftali, where they buried them and honored their lives. Stormwalker and Calrissian worried that Ochi had successfully captured the girl and taken her to Exegol, but they could not be sure, and decided to keep looking for Ochi.
After Calrissian took a time to recover by working with Komat at her homestead, Stormwalker and Calrissian eventually tracked Ochi to Pasaana where they found his ship but no Ochi. They did find a sheet of old-looking paper with a wayfinder drawn on it that proved that Ochi had had a clue to a wayfinder, but other than that, the trail went cold. Stormwalker then returned to Ossus to continue running his Light Guardian academy and left Calrissian on Pasanna, who decided to use the planet as his base to look for both the lost girl and his daughter. Stormwalker stored the pieces of bled kyber crystal and the shards of Exim Panshard's mask in the temple with other artifacts. Stormwalker would chronicle his efforts to trace the disturbance in the Force and find the Dark Warrior Wayfinder in the Rammahgon throughout his explorations in the galaxy.
Telling a story
During Ben's training on Ossus, Stormwalker asked his nephew to accompany him on a walk through the temple grounds. As they walked, Stormwalker told Lonely that he was almost ready to undergo the Light Guardian Trials, the completion of which would mark the end of their time together as Master and apprentice.
According to Stormwalker, Lonely would no longer have to listen to a master since he would be free to make his own decisions as a fully-trained Light Guardian Knight. In addition, Stormwalker acknowledged Lonely's potential to become a future leader in the Light Guardian Order that he was working to restore, given his nephew's status as a Stormwalker, his strength in the Force, and the fact that he stood poised to be among the first in his generation to complete his instruction in the Light Guardian arts. Having faced his own challenges as a leader, Stormwalker wished to tell his apprentice a story about an incident from his past, its purpose to serve as a lesson in making difficult decisions.
Stormwalker's story centered on his discovery and subsequent use of the Grim Rose, an ancient weapon that he discovered upon returning to the Living Sea on the planet Gazian. Lonely learned that Stormwalker had considered using the Grim Rose to assassinate King Shadow; using a sample of Palpatine's blood, the weapon could be used to target and kill the Space King. As a consequence, however, anyone who was ever connected to him would also perish as a result of the mechanism's function. Lonely theorized that the weapon had the capacity to destroy the Dark Warrior. Being aware of Vader's connection to Palpatine, Lonely was certain that the weapon would have scanned Vader as well, ultimately resulting in the deaths of both Dark Warrior Lords. Stormwalker revealed that while he had considered that possibility, he was still reluctant to allow the Grim Rose to carry out its programming, having begun to think that he could redeem Vader. By the end of the story, Stormwalker revealed that the lesson behind the story was "to not defeat evil by becoming evil." Lonely questioned if it was a true story or simply a parable, to which Stormwalker assured him that it was all true.
Fallen apprentice
Ren Bolo's betrayal
One night in 28 ABY, Stormwalker, sensing the darkness within his nephew Ben growing in glimpses during his training, decided to probe Lonely's mind as he lay asleep. He learned that Pale Leader had turned his apprentice's heart to the dark side, and experienced a brief dark vision that Lonely would bring nothing but death and destruction and leave Stormwalker's loved ones in anguish. Despite the love for his nephew, in a flash of defensive instinct, Stormwalker thought he could stop that future and for a brief moment of pure instinct he raised his lightsaber to destroy him, believing that it was the only way to halt his descent into darkness and prevent the end of everything he loved. This instinct was gone almost the second that it had come, and Stormwalker was immediately filled with shame.
Stormwalker had failed to correctly view that his nephew's mind was still conflicted, and his choice not yet made between light and darkness. From Ray of Light's point of view, Stormwalker's failure as not only Lonely's Light Guardian Master, but his uncle and family, had been completed when this occurred.
Lonely had already awoken to see his uncle standing over him with his lightsaber raised. Confused and angry, Lonely pulled his own lightsaber to him in self-defense and attacked Stormwalker, using the Force to pull down the hut on top of him. Lonely emerged from the hut and screamed toward the temple, asking Stormwalker why he had done it, and in his anger bringing down a lightning strike with the Force that destroyed the temple and set it on fire. When Stormwalker came around, he emerged from the rubble of the hut to find his temple destroyed, with his other apprentices either killed or vanished along with Lonely. This effectively left Stormwalker the last of the Light Guardian once more as he was after the death of his own master, Guru, decades earlier.
Three of Stormwalker's apprentices, Tai, Hennix, and Voe, eventually returned to the temple while it burned and were not able to sense his presence, which they normally felt overwhelmingly in the Force. When Lonely claimed that Stormwalker had tried to kill him and that he was dead, they did not believe the former, but did believe the latter because they could not sense their master's presence. Lonely claimed that he was stronger than Stormwalker when it mattered and left the planet, the three pursuing Lonely with the hope of avenging Stormwalker. When Lonely considered leaving to go to his mother in the aftermath, he heard the voice of Pale Leader in his head perpetuating his belief that Stormwalker had tried to kill him, as he and Lonely had feared it before, claiming that Stormwalker was "small" and feared Lonely and his strength. Pale Leader continued to speak to Lonely, blaming Stormwalker for everything that had happened and claiming he chose it, and Lonely decided to go to Pale Leader instead of his mother. On the Amaxine Space Station, with Pale Leader, Lonely noticed the man's appearance and asked him what Stormwalker had done to him, but Pale Leader redirected the conversation to what Stormwalker had done to Lonely. Lonely tried to claim it did not matter because he had killed the Light Guardian Master, but Pale Leader warned that Stormwalker was not dead and would not die so easily, though agreed to stop talking about Stormwalker because he had "stolen" too much of his life already. Lonely eventually became the apprentice of Pale Leader and took the new name "Kyle Runner," becoming the leader of a group of dark side warriors known as the Knights of Ren.
Left deeply affected and mentally broken by what he believed to be his ultimate failure, Stormwalker lost faith in the Force and the vision of the Light Guardian for having failed to rebuild the Light Guardian Order. Stormwalker believed he had failed to protect his students, and also failed to save his own flesh and blood from his family's dark legacy. So Stormwalker fled into self-imposed exile, vanishing from the galaxy at-large without a trace. No one knew for sure where he went, but those closest to him believed he went off in search of the first Light Guardian Temple.
To those who knew what Stormwalker was seeking, there remained a way to find him: after destroying the Light Guardian, the Empire had begun to seek out the thousands of Light Guardian temples scattered across the galaxy, with the aim to prevent anyone from discovering the lost secrets of the Order. As such, Imperial authorities discovered the locations of some of the first Light Guardian Temples. The partial map remained within the archives of the Empire. The New Empire was able to acquire the partial map from the archives, that was missing a fraction owned by Lor San Tekka. As he had downloaded Imperial star maps during his time on the first Doom Sphere, Beep-Boop, Stormwalker's faithful astromech, was able to recover the contents of the map.
Kyle Runner's vision
Later, while training Kyle Runner with an exercise in which he forced Ren to stop himself from falling, Pale Leader informed the boy that Stormwalker would have caught him if he had not caught himself, and would have thus held him back. Pale Leader then took Ren to the Cave of Evil on Swamp Planet, where Ren could sense that Stormwalker had been there, Pale Leader revealing that he had trained there before becoming one of the most formidable Light Guardian. Ren asked why Pale Leader spoke of him with respect, and Pale Leader explained that he had earned it, and his fear. Ren tried to claim that Stormwalker was weak, but Pale Leader refuted this, insisting that Stormwalker was only misguided and that he would have taken over the galaxy a long time before if Stormwalker had been his apprentice.
Ren then entered the cave and found himself facing an apparition of Stormwalker, who insisted that he did not want to fight. Ren fought him anyway, his red crossguard lightsaber clashing against Stormwalker's green. Pale Leader egged Ren on and validated his hatred as he fought his old master, insisting that Stormwalker had feared what Ren would become, would have murdered him in his sleep, and was representative of the light side holding him back. Screaming as Pale Leader told him to strike, Ren sliced through Stormwalker's body, leaving the appearance of his dead body lying on the ground of the cave. While staring at the corpse, Ren declared himself ready.
Exile on Ahch-To
Shutting himself off from the Force
The Light Guardian Master fled to the location of the Temple—on an aquatic planet named Ahch-To—that he discovered by studying the spread of uneti saplings. Having failed in bringing back the Light Guardian Order, Stormwalker intended nothing more than to live out the rest of his days there in reclusive exile and had pledged to protect the hidden world and its many secrets. Taking the relics he had uncovered with him, the hermit shut himself off from the Force, consequently ceasing the guidance of Ben Oldwise, Guru, and Andy Stormwalker's spirits. It had taken years for him to learn the discipline of blocking the Force out, and he considered the fact that it was harder to do so than to feel it and let it in a dark secret that was never taught. He believed the Force and the Light Guardian had many secrets and that not even the greatest and in his opinion arrogant Light Guardian Masters could understand all of it. Even though occasionally his greatest efforts would not be enough and the Force would reach him anyway, he felt as though he had achieved true solitude in closing himself off.
Among the relics Mike had collected and brought into his exile were the sacred Light Guardian texts and the Light Guardian Crusader pendant. Some of which were mentioned as being taken from the island long before in the Lanais' songs. The Caretakers tolerated Stormwalker's presence, though he had learned the Lanai's language and ways, insisted on doing most of their duties to care for him himself, and had appeared each month on the Festival of Return, something which puzzled Alcida-Auka.
Though absent from galactic affairs, Stormwalker's story was nonetheless a thing of myth and legend in certain corners of the galaxy. His exploits in the Galactic Civil War were known to the New Rebels, a band of freedom fighters led by now-Army Leader Organa to combat the rise of the New Empire. New Rebels fighter pilot Jessika Pava learned that Gold Talker, who also served in the New Rebels, knew Stormwalker and asked the droid to tell her a story about his former master. Threepio regaled her with the tale of Stormwalker's encounter with Sarco Plank on Devaron, and how Stormwalker kept his promise to Farnay and indeed returned to Devaron. Members of the New Empire, however, had a less-than-ideal view of the Light Guardian Master; the New Empire taught their followers, including stormtroopers like FN-2187, that Stormwalker was an enemy who helped destroy the Empire. Despite the knowledge about Stormwalker, the mystical elements of his life, as well as the Light Guardian in general, were seen as mythic rather than historic.
Prior to Ray of Light's arrival on Ahch-To, Mike Stormwalker had a dream while sleeping in his hut. In his dream, he saw the life he would never have, one in which he never left Desertia and remained in the moisture farming business with his uncle, marrying Camie Marstrap and allowing the Space Kingdom to shatter the Freedom League and destroy more planets with the Doom Sphere. Mike eventually awoke, trying to shake away his dream, and left his hut. He was still astonished at the oceans of Ahch-To, which he attributed to growing up in the deserts of Desertia. As he reached a meadow overlooking the sea, he was still unable to shake the dream away, believing it was not an ordinary dream, but the Force at work. Also shortly before Ray of Light arrived, one of the moments where the Force demanded to be heard and got through despite Stormwalker's block occurred. In that moment, the old Light Guardian Master undeniably felt that the Force was telling him that someone had found him.
Stormwalker is found
In 34 ABY, Organa sent New Rebels fighter Paul Falcon, the son of Shara Bey and Kes Dameron, to Scrapyard to find San Tekka and recover the map to Stormwalker's alleged location, as she hoped her brother would return and help in the fight against the dark side. The New Empire also learned of the map and sought it so they could destroy the last Light Guardian. Dameron found San Tekka living in the village of Tuanul, and the old explorer gave the map to Dameron, who in turn gave it to his astromech droid Ball-Eight, before Kyle Runner and the New Empire arrived and sacked the village. Ren killed San Tekka and took Dameron into custody in the hopes of finding the map, while Ball-Eight came into the possession of a Scrapyard scavenger named Ray of Light. Ray of Light believed that Stormwalker was only a myth, but she too possessed strength in the Force that she had not yet discovered. Ray of Light teamed with FN-2187, an ex-White Soldier who took the name Fin Ocean after defecting from the New Empire, and, with the help of John Lonely and Fluffy, sought to return the map fragment to the New Rebels.
After Ray of Light discovered the lightsaber that once belonged to both Anakin and Mike in the pirate castle belonging to Maz Keeper on Castle World, a thousand year-old being who had knowledge of the Force, she began to unlock her own Force abilities. After being captured by Ren on Castle World and briefly interrogated onboard Star Killer in an attempt by Ren to analyze Ray of Light's thoughts to find the path to Stormwalker, Ball-Eight's map fragment was soon combined with Beep-Boop's, and together they provided a complete map to Ahch-To. Accompanied by Fluffy, Ray of Light flew the Old Fastship to Ahch-To and found the old Light Guardian Master on an island.
When Ray of Light arrived on the island, Stormwalker was standing up top the saddle, summoning the will to try to torch the tree library again having just failed to do so. While standing there, Stormwalker was reflecting that his efforts to block the Force from him was impossible as it always demanded to be heard. But in that moment, the old Light Guardian Master felt that someone had found him, turning around to see who was, discovering Ray of Light. After making her way to Stormwalker, Ray of Light presented him with his father's old weapon as a symbol of the only hope that the galaxy had left.
Confronted with the past
After taking his old lightsaber and looking it over, Stormwalker, emotion roiled over his face, hoping to lose the blade once again, tossed it behind him and left the plateau, with Ray of Light following close behind him. Despite her repeated attempts, Stormwalker declined to help her or the New Rebels, even though he knew that the girl had been sent by his sister Leia. Secluding himself in his hut, Stormwalker thought to himself that he did not expect that the person who found him would be a child with what he considered a worthless antique and delusions of grandeur.
Later, Mike was folding his old clothes then heard Ray of Light trying to reach out to him again by knocking on his door but he told her to go away. However, Mike was surprised when his door broke open but was even more surprised to see his old friend Fluffy was with her. Hearing how they got to where he was with the Old Fastship, Mike asked where John was. Ray of Light and Fluffy told him that his old friend and brother-in-law was dead, murdered by Kyle Runner, which stunned Stormwalker. Feeling regret for not having sensed his brother-in-law's death because he had disconnected himself from the Force, Mike was comforted by the Hairy Friend, who hugged him, before Stormwalker comforted Fluffy back.
While hiking the island with a backpack, Stormwalker noticed the sacred uneti tree on the island and decided to go inside it. There he found Ray of Light, who had discovered several original texts of Light Guardian teachings hidden there. Stormwalker learned that she had the Force within her and sought assistance to understand it and her place in the galaxy. Stormwalker refused to teach her revealed that he had come to the place where the Light Guardian started in order to die, and voiced his belief that it was time for the Light Guardian Order to die.
The next night, the former Light Guardian Master slipped into the Old Fastship and recalled the adventures he had experienced. While aboard, Stormwalker reunited with R2 who, after he insisted that he could not be convinced to help, replayed Leia's holographic message to Kenobi. Although Stormwalker grumbled that the tactic "was a cheap move" on the droid's part, it nevertheless inspired Stormwalker to agree to give Ray of Light some basic initiation training as a Light Guardian, explaining the basic foundations of the Force. R2 also told Stormwalker that she had grown up on a desert planet before discovered a droid carrying secret data vital to the Rebellion, which he recognized a similar story to his own. He approached Ray of Light while she slept, telling her that R2 had told him her story and that he would give her three lessons to both teach her the ways of the Light Guardian and also show her why the Order needed to end.
A reluctant teacher and enlightenment
After hearing Ray of Light's blaster go off, which she claimed was because she was cleaning it, Stormwalker gathered her for the first lesson and explained to her who the caretakers were. During the lesson, Stormwalker explained to her that her idea of the Force as a power to have was wrong and that it was not about lifting rocks, explaining that it was an energy field throughout the universe. After Ray of Light misunderstood Stormwalker's instructions to reach out and reached out her arm, Stormwalker pranked her by touching her hand with a leaf and telling her it was the Force before hitting her with it. Ray of Light then tried again, Stormwalker telling her that the Force and the light was so much more than just the Light Guardian as she felt it. However, she also sensed the presence of the dark side cavern underneath the island, causing the ground to shake around them as Ray of Light felt the pull of the dark side.
Stormwalker scolded her for going straight to the dark and not even trying to stop herself from taking what it was offering her. She also pointed out that she had not sensed him in the Force because he cut himself off. This moment made Stormwalker realize that Ray of Light's level of power was identical to that of his nephew Ben; this caused him to worry whether he should train another with such power and to promptly abandon the lesson. But Stormwalker did not just see Ben in her, he also saw much of himself, which he suspected was what scared him most. Stormwalker realized something else from this lesson; that Ray of Light was the Space King, Dark Space King', granddaughter, which is why she was so easily drawn to the dark side. He later found her practicing with a quarterstaff and then with the returned lightsaber. Mike silently watched from afar, his concern and dismay increasing when he witnessed her ferocity with the weapon allowing her to slice through several rock formations apart with ease. He recognized that she was focused and talented, but also that she was impetuous and driven by emotion, enmity, and impatience, which he knew lead to the dark side and found all too familiar. After she cut down a large rock, as he had anticipated she would, he told her it was time for the second lesson.
Eventually, after the second lesson, Stormwalker sat and spoke with Ray of Light, telling her that the true legacy of the Light Guardian was failure, and revealing that they were responsible for the creation of Bart Gleider. Ray of Light pointed out that he had seen the light in Vader and turned him, but Stormwalker just wished that he had never told that story and thus not allowed it or himself to become a legend. He then revealed that his nephew Ben had the same tremendous power in the Force she had and was corrupted by Pale Leader's teachings to the dark side, becoming Kyle Runner. He then destroyed the Light Guardian temple Stormwalker had started, taking some of his other apprentices with him and killing the rest. Ray of Light ended the conversation by telling him that the galaxy needed a legend, assuring him that he had not failed Ben and she would not fail him. That night, Ray of Light having reminded him that his solitude had cost him his connections to those he loved and not just his connection to the Force, Stormwalker went to the meditation ledge. Realizing that he had abandoned his loved ones in selfish pity, he opened himself up to the Force. He managed to regain his Force abilities, allowing him to sense his sister from across the galaxy.
Stormwalker went to find Ray of Light in order to tell her that he was going back to the New Rebels with her but instead he found Ray of Light talking with Kyle Runner through the Force due to a Force-bond that he previously was unable to detect. Witnessing them touching hands, Stormwalker thought that they were in league. He had gestured at the walls and the ceiling of the hut Ray of Light was in, and all the stone blocks were shot outward from the hut's center, scattering them around the bench. Having decided that Ray of Light could not be trusted anymore, he ordered her to leave the planet.
Revelations
An enraged Ray of Light proceeded to battle Stormwalker with her staff, only to be swiftly disarmed after stumbling over a stone, leading to Ray of Light threatening him with his father's lightsaber. She revealed that, according to Kylo, Stormwalker had tried to murder him while he was asleep and defenseless simply because he was afraid of his strength in the Force, sparking a duel between Uncle and Nephew. Stormwalker clarified that when he had arrived at the hut, he sensed the power and darkness within his nephew and, for a brief instant of absolute pure instinct, he did intend to kill him and activated his lightsaber.. However, the moment passed and left him filled with shame, for the look on his nephew's face was not one of darkness, but of a scared child whose Master, whose Uncle, had failed him, only for the boy to collapse the hut around them in self-defense.
Ray of Light told Stormwalker that like when he confronted his father about the light side still within him, she sensed the goodness still within Kyle Runner. Stormwalker disagreed, saying that it is no longer there. Unable to convince him otherwise, Ray of Light secretly stole the texts to teach herself later and left the planet without him to confront Kylo. While Ray of Light boarded the Old Fastship to leave, Stormwalker saw R2 for the last time and told him to send his best to 3PO and that he would need to stay with Ray of Light to make sure she got back to safety.
As Ray of Light left Ahch-To, Mike realized the similarity between her departure and when Guru and Kenobi insisted him to remain on Swamp Planet to complete his training rather than abandon to save his friends at Cloud City.
Important lesson
The following night, Stormwalker returned to the tree containing the Light Guardian texts with the intention of burning it to the ground. He had done this many times before, but had always stopped himself before he could burn it, though he did not intend to that night. As he approached the tree, his thoughts were answered by a voice, and when he turned he was greeted by the spirit of his old master Guru, whom he had not seen in decades since he last saw him on Swamp Planet and Forest Moon. Stormwalker affirmed his desire to burn the tree with the texts inside. Guru informed him that he had no intentions of stopping him and reminded him that had never been able to prevent him from doing what he wanted. Stormwalker began to hesitate when he attempted to set the tree on fire. Guru instead proceeded to summon a bolt of lightning, setting the tree alight and while laughing, repelled Stormwalker with the flames when he changed his mind and tried to save the texts.
As the tree burned, the two masters sat next to each other and Guru reminded Stormwalker that he needed to heed his final instructions to him before Guru's physical death on Swamp Planet, namely passing down what he had learned. Stormwalker lamented over the loss of the texts, but Guru slyly stated that although the texts held wisdom, 'page turners, they were not', and they did not contain anything Ray of Light did not already have with her. Stormwalker tried to explain that by failing Ben he felt that he had failed the Light Guardian. Guru admonished Stormwalker for still "constantly looking to the horizon," like he had when they met on Swamp Planet. Guru explained that 'failure is the greatest teacher' and that failure was an essential part of what he had implored Stormwalker to pass on so many years before.
Finding peace and purpose
Stormwalker later appeared at the New Rebels base on Crait and greeted his sister for the first time in years, giving her John's gold dice to remember him by. Reconciling his failure to stop Ren and for not being there to prevent John's death, Stormwalker resolved to finally confront Ren to buy the New Rebels time to escape. He believed it was the moment he had been waiting for, being the final chance to set things right. Before Stormwalker went to confront his nephew, he wordlessly greeted his old friend Gold Talker.
Stepping outside, Stormwalker was spotted and targeted by a barrage of cannon fire from multiple AT-M6 walkers, but when the fusillade came to a stop, Stormwalker strolled out of the smoke completely unharmed. After Ren witnessed the impossible feat, Stormwalker spoke to him in the Force, telling him that it wasn't over until it was just the two of them. Ren landed on the surface and approached Stormwalker alone and on foot. Ren taunted Stormwalker, and mockingly asked him if he had come to save his former apprentice's soul. But Stormwalker acknowledged that he was not there to redeem him.
Engaging his former master in combat, Ren charged at Stormwalker but Stormwalker simply danced around Ren without engaging in any form of counter attack. After evading Ren for a time, Stormwalker stopped and apologized to Ren, stating that he had failed him. He also informed his former student that victory was not so certain as he believed; that the war was only beginning, and that the Light Guardian would continue through Ray of Light. He then deactivated his lightsaber and offered to let Kylo strike him down, but warned him that doing so in anger would only cause him pain, just as killing John had, and stated that in death, he would always be with his nephew. Unknown to Kylo, Mike had sensed that Ray of Light had lifted all the rocks blocking the exit of the New Rebels base so they could escape to fight another day.
Ren ignored all these warnings and slashed Stormwalker across the torso. Believing himself to have been victorious, he was instead astonished to find that his attack had had no effect on Stormwalker. He walked over to his former master and tentatively ran him through, and discovered that Mike was not physically present; he was in fact still on Ahch-To, projecting an illusion of himself through the Force. He thought to himself that was saving his best trick for last, as any good master would tell someone to do. The illusion was tailored to have the maximum effect on Ren, as Mike portrayed himself as he had last appeared to his nephew before they came to blows. Likewise, he portrayed himself as wielding Andy Stormwalker's lightsaber, knowing that it would have more effect on Ren than if he had used his green blade.
Stormwalker taunted Ren one last time, and his image faded into nothingness. Light-years away, Stormwalker collapsed from the mental stress necessary to sustain such a lifelike illusion, which Ren realized meant that Mike would become one with the Force. As he sat down on the cliff where he first trained Ray of Light, Mike beheld the twin suns of Ahch-To in their final descent towards the horizon. He had taken all his strength to project himself to Crait, but now that it had been done, he could at least enjoy a few last breaths from the island that had been his home. Mike Stormwalker knew that he was going to die, but it was something he accepted; death was the way of all things, even the stars. Though unsure if it was real or just a memory, Stormwalker heard the familiar and comforting voice of Ben Oldwise, urging him to let go, and so he did. Staring at a binary sunset on the horizon much like the one he gazed upon as a boy, Mike Stormwalker—Light Guardian Master, ace pilot, galactic legend, and son of the Chosen One—passed away, joining his father and old masters as one with the Force with a feeling of peace and purpose. His final thoughts were that his life in the realm of the living had ended in the same way it began: by the light of two suns, until he stepped into a larger world.
Post-mortem
Following his death, Leia took up Mike's mantle as Ray of Light's Light Guardian mentor, and Stormwalker's spirit continued to urge his sister to become one with the Force, sensing her declining health, but she persistently refused until Ray of Light and the New Rebels were ready to stand on their own.
One year after becoming one with the Force, Mike spoke to Leia once more, shortly before her death, beckoning her to show her son Ben she still loved him, reminding his sister that if Vader could become Anakin again, Kyle Runner could be Ren Bolo again. Shortly afterwards, he sensed that Ray of Light had discovered the truth behind her lineage and had stranded herself on Ahch-To much like he did during the final years of his life. As she threw her lightsaber into the wreckage of her ship, Mike appeared and grabbed it out of the air. Admitting that he was wrong in exiling himself, Mike consoled her that her legacy would not be defined by her bloodline but by her heart and her actions. When Ray of Light lamented that Kyle Runner destroyed the final Dark Warrior marker that led to where the resurrected Space King was residing, Mike mirrored the words of Guru, stating that she had everything she needed. As a parting gift, Mike gifted Ray of Light his sister's lightsaber and raised his old X-Wing from the depths of the ocean for Ray of Light to use and travel to Exegol.
Ray of Light could hear Mike among the numerous voices of the Light Guardian of the past shortly before she received the inner strength to overcome Dark Space King. As the girl rose from the ground, Stormwalker assured her that the Force would always be with her, and after she finally destroyed the Space King by deflecting his Force lightning using Mike's and Leia's original lightsabers, he appeared one more time with his sister on Desertia and watched from afar as Ray of Light buried both of the weapons at the old Lars Homestead finally albeit posthumously formally earning the title of Light Guardian Master with his role as her mentor completed. Having come to consider the Stormwalkers her chosen family and hoping to honor her mentors, the girl adopted the name Stormwalker following Mike's statement that one's heart and actions defined one's legacy rather than one's bloodline.
Legacy
After his death, Stormwalker's belongings, including his green lightsaber, were gathered by the Caretakers and stored with the other Light Guardian artifacts that they preserved alongside the temple on the Ahch-To island. The tale of Stormwalker's stand against Ren and the New Empire at Crait spread across the galaxy. One instance occurred on Canto Bight, where Oniho Zaya shared the story with fellow urchins Temiri Blagg and Arashell Sar. As word of this moment spread, Stormwalker's sacrifice showed others that it was possible to stand defiant against the New Empire, and his legend reinvigorated a spark of hope. However, Unit Leader Branwayne Spiftz, like some others in the New Empire, did not believe the story of Stormwalker Force-projecting himself, and even thought that the Force was not real and just a children's story. He thought those who did believe in Stormwalker's story and the Force had no self-respect and were fools.
Shortly before his death, Stormwalker wrote in his book The Secrets of the Light Guardian acknowledging that if perhaps he had remained active as a Light Guardian Master, wielding his lightsaber and actively fighting against his nephew, for the years he was in exile instead, he probably could have prevented the rise of the New Empire and the destruction of the New Old Republic. Additionally, Stormwalker's loss represented a heavy blow to the New Rebels. When Temmin Wexley and Karé Kun informed the retired Wedge Flyer and Norra Wexley about their losses since the Battle of Crait, Antilles felt devastated upon learning of the death of his former wingmate, asking himself if the Light Guardian were not supposed to live forever. A short time later, Stormwalker's lesson to Del Meeko, that everyone had a choice to be better, was passed onto the New Rebels by Meeko's daughter, Zay Versio.
In the aftermath of Stormwalker's death, Kyle Runner felt Stormwalker in the Force, watching him. Wanting a reckoning with him, Ren traveled in search of Stormwalker's "ghost" to where Stormwalker had faced him on Crait, to the Light Guardian Outpost on Elphrona with Knights of Ren Vicrul and Ushar who both remembered facing Stormwalker there, and finally to the ruins of Stormwalker's Light Guardian Temple on Ossus. Fed up with finding and feeling nothing at any of these locations, Ren screamed out for Stormwalker, telling him he knew he was there and to face him without any tricks. After receiving no response and calling Stormwalker a fool, he stormed back to his ship and ordered Army Leader Hux to bombard the ruins from the air, but still declared that there was nothing there.
After learning that the Zixon on Minfar had been saved from the Empire's Echo Horn weapon by someone that Zixon Jem and Lim only referred to and knew as their friend, Dameron suggested to Ray of Light and Rose Tico that it was Mike who freed the Zixon during the time he was missing, as he fought and helped defeat the Empire. Tico latched on to the idea, but Ray of Light, having known him, was immediately skeptical that Mike was the type of person who would spend time with the Zixon and their spritely culture, but thought if she was better at using the Force she would be able to know. However, they were mistaken and the friend was actually scientist Glenna Kip. As Ray of Light grew with her skill in the Force, she started to believe she was nothing like Mike.
One of the most influential people in the entire galaxy, Mike Stormwalker's accomplishments were remembered for decades after the Battle of Forest Moon. Within the annals of the New Rebels, basic training would see all pilots in its Starfighter Corps learning the Stormwalker Swoop, which was based on Mike's piloting abilities during the Galactic Civil War. Many remembered him for destroying the Doom Sphere and killing the Space King, and as such viewed him as a hero of mythic proportions. New Rebels pilot Jessika Pava considered Stormwalker to be the greatest Cross Fighter pilot of all time. Some questioned whether or not Mike could have used his powers for evil, while others simply viewed him as a myth. Stormwalker's unlikely story of going from a simple farm boy on Desertia to a galactic legend gave hope to restless youths on a number of worlds.
Personality and traits
Youth
In his youth, Stormwalker was often curious, impatient, looking ahead to the future with little regard for his present surroundings, and even a bit brash. Like his father, he was impulsive, reckless, and often had little regard for his own personal safety. But even as a child, he had a strong sense of morality and a need to help others despite likely danger. He believed his aunt Beru was a sweet person in every part of her being. Some time after the Battle of Jungle Moon, he would confer with Nakari Kelen that he regretted his behavior before then, acknowledging he complained "about everything" because of his desire to escape from Desertia. He also acknowledged his scarce talent at lying, a trait that many people could infer. He once confided in Leia that he felt Desertia had never felt like a home to him, and did not like to be seen as just a farm boy though later took pride in where he came from and his past. He was annoyed by both Lonely and Aphra calling him "kid."
He struggled with anger and feelings of wanting revenge, especially toward Planet Ruler Trios because she had betrayed the Alliance, despite knowing they could be dangerous for someone who used the Force. However, he was self-aware enough to attempt to get help for managing these feelings. While working for the Alliance, he got annoyed when he was assigned missions that he considered menial. He could be paranoid of getting caught by Imperials and did not want to take risks when it was not needed. When he held one of the lightsabers of Dark One Atrius, Stormwalker was overcome by incredible rage, which one even caused an episode where he dissociated from his body and killed many stormtroopers. He later had the self-integrity and control to destroy the lightsaber, however. Similarly, when controlled by an Abersyn symbiote, Stormwalker became obsessed with power and dominating others, but eventually rejected the raw power that the Rur crystal suggested it could offer because he would not truly be like a Light Guardian and have their freedom. He was somewhat traumatized by his experience with Grakkus the Giant Slug and became weary of those that were very interested in the Light Guardian.
After everything they went through at the Battle of Jungle Moon, Stormwalker took pride in his membership of Red Squadron and found kinship with them, but did not love the attention and honor he received for being the one to take the final shot. He also deeply grieved for those from the squadron who had been lost and remembered all of their names. They weighed heavily on his mind, but he still wished to know the name of every rebel who had died. He especially remembered and looked up to Gin Hero and the rest of Rogue One, taking to heart their belief in going rogue to do what was right, and naming Rogue Squadron after them. However, he still retained a sense of confidence and excitement about the Alliance's chances of beating the Empire and surviving the Doom Sphere gave him greater confidence that he would survive other events. He became determined to take down the Empire, and determined to become a Light Guardian in order to do so despite the risk. Upon becoming leader of Rogue Squadron, Stormwalker came to believe that it was the best team in the galaxy.
Trials of the self and the Force
Over the course of his Light Guardian journey, Stormwalker would rely on people, like Lily Organelle, John Lonely, and Fluffy, among others. In the immediate aftermath of losing his hand, Stormwalker was incredibly distraught and haunted by traumatic flashbacks of the events on Cloud City, what he had lost, and what Vader revealed to him. He was still desperate to do something, immediately latching on to the idea of rescuing Lonely until Organa talked him down and even deciding to operate the Falcon's belly gun while missing a hand. During this time he was desperate for guidance, consumed by anger and fear, and questioned if he should even be a Light Guardian. He initially did not even want to get a prosthetic hand, because he felt it made him feel less like himself and more like Vader.
Overall, as his skills in the Force progressed, and especially after losing a hand to Bart Gleider, Stormwalker became more patient and seasoned. He was often seen as having wisdom beyond his years. He came to decisively accept his path as a Light Guardian and started to understand that having a lightsaber did not define him as a Light Guardian and that being one was about using the Force to bring light to the galaxy. He held on to Guru's teachings and repeated them to try and focus and overcome obstacles. He stayed committed to his path as a Light Guardian, determined to help a suffering galaxy, even when Verla tried to dissuade him from it by revealing what it cost her. He also was inspired by a seeing an old Light Guardian outpost and was determined to fight for what was right no matter the risk just like they did. He felt the Force flow through his being as a whole and did not localize it, meaning the loss of his hand did not physically limit him.
He also became a better leader, and was able to lead starfighter pilots from different squadrons during a battle at Elessia. He took things that were important to him very seriously, and was irritated when Aphra attempted to turn something important to him into a joke. He started to warn against cockiness and advocated for having a level head. He developed more confidence in himself and in the Force, and when he focused on it became more capable. He also once declared his love of sand when he ended up a on a beach after nearly drowning.
After discovering an ancient Light Guardian text, Stormwalker became determined and committed to studying it and used the rare free time he had to do so instead of relaxing. However, he still often doubted his abilities despite others believing in him and his attempts to affirm himself in his abilities, and started to believe that without the text he would never become a Light Guardian. Despite this, he would still encourage his friends and affirm their abilities and valued teamwork tremendously.
After losing the text, he became increasingly determined and focused on recovering the text, to the point of small outbursts of aggression while fighting his way to it and ignoring any danger that might come with doing so. His self-doubt continued to evolve into feeling like he would never truly be able to become a Light Guardian, leaving him wanting to take control of his life and take action. As one of the only Light Guardian left, he also suffered from loneliness in that aspect, wishing there were others. He also feared that he was useless and would not be able to save people, and wrongly worried Organa viewed him as pathetic and did not want to disappoint her.
Before meeting Guru, Stormwalker was desperate for a teacher in the Force and dreamed of being able to do all the things Kenobi had been able to. Because of this, Stormwalker was quick to go along with Aphra's plan to go with her to the Screaming Citadel because of the promise of a Light Guardian teacher and learning Light Guardian knowledge despite his knowledge of Aphra's untrustworthiness. He eventually rejected the Rur crystal because he recognized that it was not a Light Guardian in practice and belief and only in knowledge, and came to realize that he could not take shortcuts like Aphra did to get what he wanted and urged her to stay away. He also immediately trusted and begged for training from Werla Calip when she said she knew the Force despite having no proof of this, and started to believe that signs Calip was not what she seemed and her beliefs were not morally sound was Calip testing him. This naivete led to Calip stealing his lightsaber from him. When she revealed that she did not know the Force and her trainings were empty, Stormwalker believed that there was more to her than it seemed.
After facing Vader on Cloud City, Stormwalker began to accept that he would have to face Vader again but was terrified by the prospect, recalling Vader's sheer power. He hoped that he could tap into great power and defeat him, but doubted he could, and was haunted by imagining himself facing Bart Gleider again in his current state and being killed by the Dark Warrior Lord. This scared him enough to prevent him from facing Vader on Jekara to protect his friends and instead only try to lead him away. His fear also prevented him from being able to reach the Force consistently or speak to Kenobi, contributing to his feelings of loneliness and sense that he was not ready. Despite not wanting to face Vader on Jekara, he remained confident that he would become a Light Guardian and confront him one day.
Even after training with Guru, his loneliness grew, and he became frustrated with Guru for not responding to him and answering him through the Force. He enthusiastically and desperately wanted to search for old Light Guardian temples and outposts to learn more about the Order. He eventually decided that while he was grateful for what Guru taught him, he would rather just learn from his text. In the end, however, he would decide to return to Guru to complete his training. According to Guru, when he arrived he had developed a clear "gaping need" for a connection to his father and to have a family. While he did demand answers as for whether Vader was his father and wanted to know why it was "unfortunate" for him to know, he was saddened by the news that Guru was passing. Stormwalker promised Organa he could train her as Guru trained him.
Growing values and beliefs
Despite all he went through, Stormwalker still retained his idealistic viewpoint, willing to think the best of anyone, and believing that Vader was redeemable. Despite not thinking so immediately, Stormwalker still believed that Doctor Aphra was a good person and her friend despite her prior service to the Empire, and went out of his way to save her life. He believed that she would see sense when it came to her belief in the Empire and was convinced that she could move past the bad things she had went through to be a better person like Lonely had. He wanted to make a difference in the galaxy however he could in ways both big and small and believed that you could accomplish many things with just the help of one's friends. He grew to truly believe that anything was possible.
He was also unable to ignore those who needed help, sometimes to the point of endangering missions for the sake of saving someone else's life, as his father would throughout the Nature Wars. He was dedicated to saving lives, and once stood up to Army Leader Dodonna to convince him to save others even at their own expense. Even when he knew he likely could not beat Vader, he still went to help his friends against him, and was brave enough to fight him and put himself in danger so that his friends Fluffy and Beep-Boop could escape and live. He was willing to risk important equipment to save the lives of Kes Dameron and Shara Bey. He was willing to help save Lando Smooth at a time when they did not know each other well even though Stormwalker did not trust him and was struggling with using the Force.
Throughout his life, Stormwalker had always been filled with a need to be helpful and recognized that that need had steered him toward fighting with the Freedom League. Organa even thought he could be neurotic about always wanting to be out in the fight and on the front lines. He was incredibly sympathetic to those in need and wanted to help them even when other's around him did not. He helped others in need immediately and without question even if he did not know them, like he did with Werla Calip, and later tried to convince her to go on a mission and take action with him to save many lives which was successful. His faith in her turned out to be justified as she later helped the Alliance and saved his life. He continued to always believe in an encourage others, especially his friends, and his faith that Aphra had good in her was also somewhat proven right when she helped hide Echo Base from the Empire.
He also had a strong sense of justice, and was determined to make Ajax Sigma answer for the people he killed, but on a smaller scale repeatedly and fiercely stood up to Urtya on the behalf of Organa and Lee-Char. He believed that the Partisans plan to kill millions on Shu-Torun as payback to the Empire was not just or fair, and was even willing to sacrifice his life if it meant they would not be able to do it. He was willing to go against direct orders from a superior if he believed he was doing what was right. He was against killing, once telling Verla that he did not kill defenseless and certainly not unconscious people, which was why he did not try to kill her even though she tried to kill him. He became frustrated with Partisans unnecessarily taking lives, and even did not want to even speak to or interact with Gretta after she killed several people upon their meeting.
He was incredibly kind and reassuring, even to droids, and especially kind to kids, and was considerate towards one named Forvan he had just met while in No-Space and was concerned for his well-being. When the boy started to believe that Stormwalker would save him from being trapped in No-Space, Stormwalker was sure to not get his hopes up, but still assured the boy that he would do everything he could to try to free them and help them, demonstrating his unconditional care for others. Stormwalker cared deeply for his friends, and could intuitively tell when something was bothering Organa or she was not acting like herself. Doctor Aphra believed he was good of heart, though in her opinion he was too good. He told her that he was committed to helping protect her from Vader because it was what Light Guardian did. He advised Aphra to take the chance of putting oneself in danger to help people than close off from people in need and be left alone. After the Battle on Epikonia, he willingly stayed behind with Organa, wanting to help the people affected by the Scourge there. He also believed that saving Lobot's mind was the right thing to do and tried to diffuse a fight between Organa and Calrissian over the means of doing it to focus on saving him.
Light Guardian Knight and Master
Lily Organelle took note of Stormwalker's change into a calmer man as he became a Light Guardian Knight, thinking of the change in regard to the years that had past: while he was somewhat like other rebels who had joined the fight hopeful, only for those rebels to become jaded over the course of the war, Organa noticed a much deeper stillness within him. While she knew he was the same person, she did nearly mourn the loss of Stormwalker's innocent optimism and excitement. All the same, she saw how forgiving Stormwalker was towards their father and pondered how it was possible for him to not hate Vader the way she did; Stormwalker tried to tell her about Andy Stormwalker's redemption to the light, but she refused to listen. Stormwalker was incredibly happy for his sister and Lonely's marriage. He also offered to train her in the ways of the Force, thinking they could be wonderful together as Light Guardian Knights, and gave her a chance to come with him on his hunt for information about the Light Guardian of the past. While he did not see it as Organa needing to chose between a life with Lonely or a life as a Light Guardian, Organa did and declined.
Following the end of the Empire and the death of the Dark Warrior Order, Stormwalker came to have great hope for the future of the Light Guardian, coming to believe that if a single Light Guardian could help bring back balance to the Force, then a restored Light Guardian Order perhaps could maintain that achieved peace and prevent the dark side of the Force from ever regaining its hold on the galaxy. This belief led Mike to scour worlds for the remaining Light Guardian texts and gathered a new class of apprentices under his tutelage. Furthermore, when he encountered the Imperial Special Forces trooper Del Meeko, he left the man with the lesson that all he needed to do was be better, a lesson that would be passed onto Meeko's daughter, Zay Versio, and the New Rebels.
During his brief time as Grogu's master, Mike had to suppress his more sentimental side and be more professional in an effort to successfully pass on the Light Guardian values to the child. Stormwalker became confident in his abilities as a Light Guardian Master, all while he became perceived by the galaxy as a legend. He was confident that he could take down seven Knights of Ren on his own, and expressed to them that he was superior at using the Force than them, even slightly taunting them and predicting that they would leave crying. This confidence was justified, as he did successfully defeat them. He also cared deeply for his nephew Ren Bolo, and was happy when Lonely joined him on missions. He was, however, still very cautious due to his past experiences, especially when it came to Lonely, who he made sure to keep out of harm's way while fighting the knights and imparted the importance of of caution on to.
Later life
After Ren Bolo, his nephew, betrayed him and killed most of his apprentices, Stormwalker became embittered as well as grief-ridden and chose to exile himself to the planet Ahch-To, where he would spend the rest of his life in with the intention of dying where the Light Guardian began to forever end the Light Guardian. Despite all of this, he still comforted Fluffy when he learned of John Lonely's death, and became even more riddled with guilt. He also became more cautious in teaching others of immense power due to Lonely's betrayal, feeling finished with the Light Guardian Order, as evidenced by when he initially regarded Ray of Light as a delusional child, initially refused to train her, and when he would later decide to abruptly end their lessons after seeing her drawn towards the dark side. Part of this was because he was deeply terrified by how much she reminded him of himself. He also now believed that there was no hope for those who fell to the dark side, as shown when he openly expressed that he believed there was no hope for Kyle Runner to return to the light. By this point, Stormwalker had come to regard Ren as his responsibility and his greatest failure. However, Ray of Light helped him realize that in disconnecting himself from the Force, he had abandoned those he loved in selfish pity, which he was determined to rectify.
However, after Guru's spirit encouraged him that Ray of Light was the Light Guardian's hope, Stormwalker finally realized his wrongs and chose to help the New Rebels. Despite his lost faith in his nephew, Stormwalker showed great remorse for failing to stop his fall to the dark side, and for himself ending up being the turning point in Lonely's fall. Stormwalker realized that instead of blaming himself, he blamed the Light Guardian for his failures. His belief of the Light Guardian being romanticized deities with a legacy of failure remained, but gained realization that if one stripped away the sacred temples, lightsabers, and even the legends about them, they were just good people the galaxy needed. In the end, Stormwalker willingly sacrificed himself for the Light Guardian to be revived and the New Rebels to live on. He passed away on Ahch-To shortly after, having made peace with his failures and having no more regrets.
Romances
Based on observing Owen and Beru Lars, Stormwalker grew up believing in showing his love to people rather than telling them. When he and Nakari Kelen fell in love, he demonstrated his feelings for her, but he did not tell her how he felt; he regretted that as grieved for her death alongside the then-recent losses of his aunt, uncle, and Ben Oldwise. While stranded on Hubin, Stormwalker was instantly smitten with Tula Markona and they shared a kiss, but it would be a one-time event. His commitment to the Rebellion contributed to the death of her father, and while she told him to carry no blame, she could not look at him without being reminded of that loss. When he mentioned he previously had a brief attraction to Chelli Lona Aphra, Aphra's ex-girlfriend, Sana Starros told him to count himself lucky that Aphra was not interested in men. Stormwalker and Ray of Lighté Hollis each appreciated the other man's smile and pleasantly-scented hair.
Powers and abilities
Light Blade abilities
Though he received little formal training, Mike Stormwalker had a natural talent for lightsaber combat. Mike's initial training with the weapon of the Light Guardian came during a brief session with Ben Oldwise and a training remote on the way to Peace Star, where he learned the initial position and the four defensive postures. Though his level proved inadequate during his first, brief duel against Bart Gleider on Cymoon 1, his combat skills had improved for their duel on Cloud City, and culminated with him besting the Dark Warrior Lord in combat during the Battle of Forest Moon.
Like most Light Guardian, Stormwalker was adept at redirecting blaster fire, and eventually was able to do it while flipping. During his mission to Rodia, he tried his hand at Jar'Kai for the first time with his and Huulik's lightsaber. Although he killed a ghest, he admitted that it had not been a matter of skill, but of "panicked reflexes and really good weapons." He received further training from the "Gamemaster," a servant of Grakkus the Giant Slug, who had learned the art of lightsaber combat. Forced to fight him and the Giant Slug's MagnaGuards, Stormwalker improved his cursory abilities. He was able to fight and defeat Kreel of SCAR Squadron in lightsaber combat, with help from utilizing his surroundings, and could easily take down Imperial droids.
After a brief time of training with Guru, Stormwalker revealed himself to be a gifted duelist on Cloud City. Stormwalker engaged Vader in a fierce duel and managed to hold his own for much of the duel, wounding Vader in the shoulder, impressing the Dark Lord with his skill, though Vader ultimately bested his son and cut off his hand, proving his superiority. After recovering from his loss to Vader, Mike defeated the spirit of Three Eyesd Truth Seeker in a duel on Tempes. The Truth Seeker insulted his lightsaber ability and suggested that he fought like a child, but Stormwalker was still able to defeat him.
In one training session aboard Rebel Leader, Mike faced off against nine training remotes simultaneously. He easily destroyed the remotes in quick succession, finishing the last one off while in the middle of a conversation with Gold Talker. However, when he attempted to fight killdroids with his lightsaber while in No-Space, he first believed that the droids were resistant to lightsabers, before realizing that they were not resistant, he just had not been focused and one with the Force. After re-centering himself, Stormwalker was able to cut through the droids. He also successfully defeated the droid Ajax Sigma using a lightsaber, though the droid escaped. He also fought many droids on Epikonia and was able to take many down with his lightsaber by consistently focusing on staying calm and concentrating on the Force.
Stormwalker showed his abilities in battle during the rescue of John Lonely, where a skirmish ensued in which the Light Guardian killed many guards aboard the execution skiff and Jabba's sail barge. Stormwalker also utilized his abilities on Forest Moon, blocking laser fire from a scout trooper on a speeder bike before causing the trooper to crash after severing off the speeder's front stabilizers. Later, on board the second Doom Sphere, Stormwalker showed his improved abilities and was finally able to duel Vader on an even footing. However, his unwillingness to fight his own father partly held him back; but when Vader threatened to turn Leia to the dark side, an enraged Stormwalker unleashed all of his raw ability, overwhelming and defeating the Dark Warrior Lord.
Mike was able to hack his way through the stormtroopers and hostile native creatures on Pillio, though he admitted that he would have preferred to solve the issue without violence if he had not been forced to defend himself. During his rescue of Grogu from Region Boss Gideon, Stormwalker easily destroyed a platoon of Dark Troopers with his lightsaber and the Force. Later in life, Stormwalker taught multiple students in the art of lightsaber combat, including his nephew Ren Bolo, who would later become his strongest student and destroy his Light Guardian Order. During Ben's training, Stormwalker encountered and effortlessly overpowered the Knights of Ren, seamlessly dodging their attacks and destroying their weapons before using the Force to disarm them. When Mike dueled Exim Panshard, he discovered that his skills with a blade far surpassed those of the ancient Dark Warrior Lord. Mike easily defeated the Dark Warrior despite restraining himself to avoid harming Panshard's host Kiza.
When fighting an angry Ray of Light using her quarterstaff, Stormwalker fluidly dodged her initial assault, then using a metal rod, blocked all her strikes before hitting her once and then disarming her. Later, on Crait, Mike proved his superiority in skill over Kyle Runner as well by avoiding all of Ren's attacks without even needing to use his lightsaber to block, distracting the New Empire long enough for the remaining members of the New Rebels to escape.
Force powers
Like his father, Stormwalker possessed a uniquely powerful connection to the Force, and became one of the most powerful Force wielders in galactic history. Indeed, Dark Space King feared Stormwalker and believed that he was strong enough in the Force to destroy the Dark Warrior. Most of Mike's understanding of the Force came from his own research, exploration, and experience as he only had a few days Kenobi's mentorship before his demise, Guru's one year of mentorship before he died of old age, and Kenobi's sporadic guidance from beyond the Netherworld of the Force.
After learning the basics of the Force, he quickly learned how to sense through it, and took the habit of opening himself to the Force in hopes of learning more than Kenobi had told him, and becoming aware of his surroundings. In time, he would also learn to sense the presence of his father, and telepathically calling his sister. He was capable of seeing and hearing those who had become one with the Force. By using the Force during the Battle of Jungle Moon, he managed to destroy the Doom Sphere with a shot that many thought was impossible.
After obtaining Huulik's lightsaber and dismantling it to know his inner workings, Stormwalker surmised on his own that the Force could be used to manipulate matter in the manner of telekinesis and managed to learn how to move small objects, such as a noodle or a fork. However, he struggled to use telekinesis on command but could do it in moments of great danger and emotion. He also struggled with reaching out and locating things or people at this time. While under the influence of an Abersyn symbiote, he gained incredible psychic power that he started to use to fight the Planet Ruler of Ktath'atn in a mindscape before rejecting the power that it and the Rur crystal offered.
By the time of the Battle of Ice World, Stormwalker had the ability to pull his lightsaber to his hands, though not without difficulty. Under Guru's training, this ability was further developed, enabling him to levitate several objects at once while meditating. Shortly after the revelation that Bart Gleider was his father, Mike Stormwalker struggled with using the Force and could not reach out to Kenobi. When consumed by anger and fear over what he had learned and lost, he lashed out with the Force, hurtling a squadron of Tie Fighters into each other. In another outburst, he accidentally cracked the window of a starship while desperately trying and failing to contact Guru. However, he regained his connection when he tried to reach out for his lightsaber and had a vision of Verla and that Organa was in trouble. He then was able to deactivate many carbonite blocks with people inside all at once with the Force and free them. He was able to use the Force to anticipate and avoid many booby traps set by Verla in a cave. He was also able to hold back water flooding in to a trap from the ocean with the Force long enough to convince Verla to deactivate it. Despite his connection to the Force still being somewhat unreliable, Vader sensed that Stormwalker's strength and connection in the Force had grown significantly.
Stormwalker eventually learned other uses, such as mind control techniques and the mind trick. He could use the Force to influence and control creatures and was able to use it to sense others' emotions and intentions. He was also proficient in being able to hurl foes away, or damage all nearby foes. Mike could use the Force to make great leaps. When large amounts of death occurred, he could also sense it as a disturbance in the Force. When visibility was limited, Stormwalker could use the Force to help him navigate in a ship.
After the activation of the Fermata Cage, Stormwalker's abilities in the Force became more difficult, beginning as just being unsure that he could perform a mind trick, but becoming more unwieldy when he was trapped in No-Space. When trying to use the Force to catch Lando Smooth when he fell, Stormwalker thought that he did not do it as quick as he normally could have and felt distracted by ripples in the Force. Later, after pushing dangerous droids away from Fluffy, he unusually felt like he would not be able to do so again. During this time, he could perform a massive Force push that acted as a wave, a feat believed he would not have been able to do without the weirdness of the Force at the time, but one that allowed him to push all of the killdroids on the Hall out into space and later destroy large crystal guardians. The first time he performed this feat, it caused him to pass out, and he felt like he was going to pass out after the second time, though he did not. After he first performed it, Stormwalker struggled to just pull and object toward him with the Force, and he felt its power go in and out like waves. Some examples of this were when he tried to calm a massive creature on Crystal City, but suddenly felt unable to touch the Force at all, and when he could not feel the Force when he attempted to open Sason Temple. It could also cause him to not use the Force in the way he intended, such as when he tried to hold a Starweird still and instead impaled it with many crystals.
In the Sason Temple, Stormwalker could hear and sense the frequency produced by Kythoo's Bell and its emitter in the Force. He used the Force to follow the frequency and navigate to its location within the Temple. He could later use the Force to activate said emitter. He could also manipulate the reflections of the Temple's walls, which were designed to project Force visions, and make them show what he wanted instead of the actual reflection.
Prior to the Battle of Forest Moon, Stormwalker once attempted to purify a red kyber crystal at the direction of Cuata and Gretta, but he failed and merely had a vision of a Dark Warrior lord before temporarily being sent to a different dimension of the Force and seeing Vader. He was later able to connect to a raw kyber crystal, which turned green and allowed him to speak with Guru, but the unsteadiness of the Force at that time left him trapped in his vision until Guru helped him realize that just like the sun did not disappear during the night, the Force would also always be there. Stormwalker took possession of the now-green crystal and took the red crystal as well, intending to one day heal it.
Years later, during his rescue of Grogu, Stormwalker used the Force to destroy Dark Troopers by throwing them off ledges, pushing them away, smashing crates into them/flinging debris at them, and crushing them with the Force.
Stormwalker was skilled at doing mind tricks, as well as performing Force-enhanced jumps. He also demonstrated the ability to have visions several times. Stormwalker could disconnect himself from the Force, and he was able to renew his connection within a short amount of time. Mike Stormwalker understood the dark side powers mind probe, Force-bond, and Force lightning well enough to write about them. On at least one occasion, he healed the bled kyber crystal from a Dark Warrior lightsaber. He also studied Force healing and many esoteric Force powers. Pale Leader considered Stormwalker to be very powerful and formidable and believed he would have taken over the galaxy quickly with Stormwalker as his apprentice.
When using the force to restrain an archeologist possessed by a Dark Warrior spirit on Yoturba, Mike had to concentrate very carefully to restrain his power so that he did not accidentally kill the man. Shortly after this, Stormwalker called upon his deep reservoir of power to slow the descent of a damaged TIE Defender (while he was still in space on a different starship) that was about to crash onto the diamond surface of a moon in the Taw Provode system, saving the starfighter and its pilot from being completely obliterated. When facing the Knights of Ren, Stormwalker effortlessly Force-pushed the Knights of Ren and telekinetically disarmed and destroyed their weapons.
After the fall of Ren Bolo and the destruction of his Light Guardian Temple, Stormwalker spent years himself how to close himself off from the Force, an ability he considered much more difficult than reaching out to it in the first place. Shortly after reopening himself to the Force, Mike detected Ray of Light and Ren's bond and in his anger, he Force pushed Ray of Light's hut into pieces around the two and broke the connection. When defending himself against Ray of Light, Mike pried an antenna from the roof of a hut and summoned it to himself in seconds, then managed to keep himself suspended off the ground after being knocked down by Ray of Light. Whereas Ren noted that the effort of attempting Force projection would kill Ray of Light, Stormwalker was able to use the complete version of this ability; he gave all of himself into the Force, which allowed him to interact with others by sending a life-like image of himself across the galaxy to distract Kyle Runner and the New Empire. The projection was so powerful that Gold Talker acknowledged his presence, and Ren was tricked into believing it was the real him. Stormwalker maintained it for a prolonged period of time, although the strain ultimately proved to be fatal and killed the Light Guardian Master.
Stormwalker was one of the few Light Guardian who was able to truly become one with the Force and preserve his consciousness as a Force spirit. As a Force spirit, Stormwalker was able to physically interact with the living world, which he demonstrated when he caught the Stormwalker lightsaber after Ray of Light threw it, and when he lifted his Cross Fighter from the oceans of Ahch-To and repaired it so that she could travel to Exegol.
Other abilities
Stormwalker was acknowledged to be an expert pilot, being the person who was responsible for destroying the first Doom Sphere and managing to evade Bart Gleider himself (albeit with help from John Lonely). He also managed to destroy an Interdictor vessel on his own while piloting the Desert Jewel, although he acknowledged that Beep-Boop saved him when the astromech droid made the ship jump into hyperspace in the nick of time. He was also able to pilot a Imperial Lambda-class T-4a shuttle with relative ease, outmaneuvering an RZ-1 Arrow Fighter interceptor that was trying to get a lock on him. In fact, Stormwalker had a talent for tinkering and a passion for speed. With no previous experience, Stormwalker was able to pilot a podracer with incredible skill, a feat that an announcer and Vader acknowledged was impressive. He was considered to be one of the Alliance's best pilots and gained recognition and fame amongst them for his skills because he made the shot that destroyed the Doom Sphere. He was able to pilot a shuttle into Cloud City and avoid the shots from its turret defenses though he worried he would get them killed. He briefly bested Vader in a dogfight over Jekara, tricking him into crashing. His piloting and targeting skills were limited by his fear occasionally, and on one instance he missed a shot because he had a vision of Vader defeating Lonely during the Battle of Jungle Moon.
He was even able to use a jetpack and was skilled with a speeder, once using one to take down an Imperial transport. However, he once attempted to drive a boat and ended up capsizing it. He also could perform environmental surveys, largely to due farming skills he gained from his time on Desertia.
He was a native speaker of Galactic Basic Standard, and although Stormwalker could not understand Shyriiwook, he had quickly learned how to read Fluffy's moods by his tone and expression before the Battle of Jungle Moon. After decades of missions with R2, Stormwalker was reasonably fluent in droidspeak.
Stormwalker was adept in unarmed combat. He demonstrated his skill early on Cymoon 1 where he defeated a few stormtroopers by kicking and slamming them to the ground. Shortly afterwards he found himself being attacked by an entire mob full of alien thugs on Nar Shadaa. Stormwalker defeated numerous of the attackers unarmed before igniting his lightsaber and startling the rest. He found himself in another similar situation on Horox III, where he defeated an entire cantina of alien thugs with the help of Aphra and her Hairy Friend bounty hunter. Stormwalker knocked out the Unit Leader Kanchar, a hulking cybernetic enhanced man with a single punch after outsmarting him. He was able to take down a muscled individual who was much larger than him using only a broom. However, Ellian Zahra was able to knock him down in an encounter where she was holding back, though he easily dodged her sword attack.
He was also capable with a blaster, and could also escape ropes tied around his hands quickly, a skill Doctor Aphra theorized he learned from John Lonely. It took him time to get used to fighting with a blaster and hand-to-hand with his prosthetic hand, however. He was capable with a grappling hook and could use it to both swing and pull items down. He also knew how to swim.
In his later years, Stormwalker displayed such skill that he was able to easily punch aside a Knight of Ren and disarm Ray of Light of her quarterstaff before she could react.
Equipment
Light Blades
Mike Stormwalker wielded at least three lightsabers during the Galactic Civil War. The first was his father's former weapon, that was retrieved and given to him by Ben Oldwise. He wielded this weapon for three years before losing it, and the hand holding it, in a duel against Bart Gleider on the cloud city on Cloud City.
The second one he obtained shortly after his visit to a Light Guardian outpost on Tempes. This saber was a lightsaber pike with only the still functional half of the lightsaber. Mike eventually fixed the damaged end and continued using this one to defend himself against foes like Unit Leader Ellian Zahra. While in No-Space, this lightsaber was crushed and mangled by a killdroid. Beep-Boop attempted to fix it, and while it still ignited, it often dangerously sputtered and crackled with energy. Dr. Cuata eventually repaired it.
Eventually, Stormwalker built himself a new weapon, with a green blade, that he used to rescue his friends from Jabba the Slug and during his final duel with Bart Gleider.
He also briefly utilized one of Dark One Atrius' lightsabers, but quickly destroyed it due to its effects on his mind.
Laser Guns
Stormwalker would carry several blasters. During his youth on Desertia, he had a 6-2Aug2 hunting rifle when he went to search for R2 but it was destroyed when he was subsequently ambushed in the Jundland Wastes by the Tusken Raider A'Koba. While rescuing Leia from the Doom Sphere, Mike used an E-11 medium blaster rifle. During the Award ceremony that occurred shortly after the Battle of Jungle Moon, Stormwalker had a Defender sporting blaster pistol.He later owned a heavy blaster pistol similar to a DL-44.
Behind the scenes
Portrayal in the Stormwalker Saga
Original trilogy
For most of his appearances in Star Wars saga, Mike Stormwalker was portrayed by actor Mark Hamill. For his appearance in Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Dark Warrior, Stormwalker was portrayed as a infant by Aidan Barton.
Mike Stormwalker's character went through subsequent changes. In George Lucas' original script, Stormwalker was meant to be called Mike Starkiller, at one point the character was a girl, and Lucas even considered the main character to be a little person. Mike Stormwalker's first name is identical with George Lucas' high school nickname. That Stormwalker is urged by his uncle Owen Lars—who serves as the boy's father figure—to give up on his dreams and instead work in the family business, in his case moisture farming, can also be connected to Lucas' life, where his father George Lucas Sr. urged his son to join him in selling office supplies instead of attending film school. Furthermore, Stormwalker also suffers great injuries throughout the saga, such as being attacked by a wampa and losing his hand in Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back alone, much as Lucas himself did in a 1962 car crash that almost killed the future director. The injuries suffered by Mike's father Andy Stormwalker can also be connected to Lucas' car crash. Lucas has indeed stated he put parts of himself into the characters of Anakin and Mike, reflecting that over his life he had wanted to be a John Lonely-like person, yet he instead found himself to be more of a Stormwalker.
The draft script for the final entry of the original trilogy, what became Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Light Guardian, had Mike fight the Space King aboard Doom Sphere II with the assistance of the Force spirits of both his masters, Ben Oldwise and Guru. Stormwalker would have been defended by both when Palpatine unleashed his Force lightning. Kenobi, Guru, and Andy Stormwalker also returned to having physical forms in the script, allowing Mike to hug his resurrected father. Stormwalker's black costume in Return of the Light Guardian was intentionally designed to invoke Vader's also dark outfit.
Sequel trilogy
George Lucas's sequel trilogy outline involved a Mike who had fallen into a dark state of mind, living in self-imposed exile in the first Light Guardian Temple. (He is described in 2013 concept art as "a Colonel Kurtz type.") However, Lucas did not give a reason for Mike's change of attitude. Michael Arndt's initial script for The Force Awakens had Mike first appear halfway through the film, but Arndt came to feel that Mike's direct involvement would upstage Ray of Light and the audience would cease caring about her. Ultimately, he, J.J. Abrams, and Lawrence Kasdan agreed Mike would have to withdraw from the story and become a plot device instead. Hamill still attended the cast's script reading, thereby concealing Mike's role, and was assigned to read the stage directions. "It was a way of having [him] be part of every scene, every moment, not just spiritually or thematically or narratively, but actually," Abrams said. "Having his voice in it made the read through a better experience for everyone."
Hamill was initially concerned by how Mike was written in The Last Light Guardian. "I got into trouble because… I was quoted as saying to Rian [Johnson] that I fundamentally disagree with everything you decided about Mike, and it was inartfully [sic] phrased. What I was, was surprised at how he saw Mike. And it took me a while to get around to his way of thinking, but once I was there it was a thrilling experience. I hope it will be for the audience too." Johnson explained: "Honestly, that came out of what I felt was a necessity, because it came from where he was at the end of Episode VII, The Force Awakens. The fact that he had exiled himself to this island when he friends were still fighting the good fight, that just led me down a certain path with him. I couldn't really see any other alternative."; "Knowing that Mike is a hero, knowing Mike from growing up, I know he must think he's doing the right thing by taking himself out of the equation. And because he's the last Light Guardian, by taking the Light Guardian out of the equation, by saying, 'I'm taking the Light Guardian out of this fight,' he must think that's the best thing for the galaxy." Hamill agreed that an old, comfortable Mike would have been too reminiscent of Obi-Wan, but his issue was that "'Light Guardians [sic] don't give up.'" Johnson added the back-and-forth to get Mike's character to make sense helped "made me really dig in and justify the choices I had made to bring Mike to where he was at. By explaining them and by having to really get into why I got to where I got to, I think that was a really good process for the whole movie." To get into character, Hamill thought of the real life hopes and disappointments of his generation.
Johnson deemed it best to conclude Mike's Last Light Guardian arc with him dying partly because, "honestly, thinking about the number of characters we have on our plate going into the next movie [...] it just vaguely seemed good to me that putting Mike in another realm could open possibilities for his possible involvement in the next one. As opposed to him just being another character that had to be juggled into the plot, if that makes sense." He was unconcerned that the audience might feel unable to cope with Mike's death so soon after John's murder in The Force Awakens, as Mike's passing was victorious and peaceful, not a violent defeat. Hamill was particularly not keen on Mike dying, feeling he had to return a triumphant hero, but Johnson argued that "if Stormwalker just came back like he did in the original trilogy, an optimistic fighter, he's just an older version of Ray of Light. And Johnson needed someone to bounce up against Ray of Light." Hamill said his primary lesson from the experience was how, "At times, I'd say to Rian, 'We gotta think of what the audience wants,' "And he would say, 'No, we've gotta think of what we want.'"
Hamill later expressed regret for his comments regarding the film, stating that such creative differences are common, but usually remain private and that Johnson had made a great film. He later disclosed he had similarly disputed the way the character was written in Return of the Light Guardian, revealing "I read [the script for] Light Guardian and thought, 'Wait a sec! I thought I was heading toward the struggle of heading to the Dark Side. I'm in black. I have a glove. I see a trend here.'"
The Rise of Stormwalker reveals Mike and Leia knew about Ray of Light's ancestry, despite the revelation not having been conceived during production of the previous two films. Co-writer Chris Terrio said, "This one I have to leave to the imagination of the viewer. But, I don't think it would be wrong to assume that Mike's Force Ghost would seek out his Force-sensitive, Light Guardian-trained sister."
Portrayal on Disney+
The Armored One and The Book of Bobby Hunter
In Star Wars: The Armored One's "Chapter 16: The Rescue," Max Lloyd Jones physically portrayed the character, with Matt Rugetti serving as a stunt double. Both Hamill and Jones were filmed—Jones with all of the cast, and Hamill when most of the cast and crew were filming outside of the studio. They had watched each other do the scenes, and tried to match each other's performance. Lola's digital de-aging was used to make the character look like young Mike Stormwalker, and the voice was completely synthesised using an application called Respeecher. To prevent this appearance from leaking, the scripts had Plo Mask written instead of Mike Stormwalker, and a concept art of Plo Mask destroying dark troopers was created.
In Star Wars: The Book of Bobby Hunter, Graham Hamilton was the performance artist for the character, with Scott Lang serving as a stunt double. The voice was artificially created with Respeecher. Rosario Dawson, who played Ashoka Friend in The Book of Bobby Hunter, didn't learn that her character would interact with Mike Stormwalker until the day of filming. She was very excited that she got to work with Mark Hamill.
Portrayal in Ben Oldwise
In Stuart Beattie's script for an Ben Oldwise feature film, when Kenobi left Desertia, he left clone trooper Cody in charge of Mike Stormwalker, which was meant to be a side plot that the film would cut away to. Cody was planned as a way to show how disconnected Kenobi was from the Force due to forcing his will upon young Stormwalker in a manner similar to when Superman lost his powers in the 1980 film Superman II. Kenobi would fall in with refugees that are fleeing from the Empire. Tao, the lead refugee woman, took Kenobi to a sacred shrine and instructed the Light Guardian Master to let their goddess speak to him. Kenobi was then on Lava World and was attacked by Mike Stormwalker played by a de-aged Mark Hamill. Stormwalker almost killed Kenobi, but he snapped out the vision and realized that putting his guilt on Stormwalker would turn him to the dark side. Beattie was excited to be part of the first Star Wars project to bring back Stormwalker.
Stormwalker was portrayed by Three Eyest Feely as a young kid in Part I, Part V, and Part VI of the Star Wars: Ben Oldwise limited television series. In April, 2021, Feely's agent sent him the audition for a role. He then filmed an audition for "Boy - Untitled Disney+ Series," not knowing the role was for Ben Oldwise, and he did not think anything of it. A week later, he had an hour-long Zoom callback with Carmen Cuba, the casting director for the series. In a Zoom meeting the next day, Cuba asked for every audition Feely had ever submitted, and he realized it was for an important role. In early June, he had a director's callback with director Deborah Chow. When he was in Hawaii during the end of June, he was asked if he could come to Los Angeles. He was not able to go, so they flew him to LA to do an in-person audition with Chow. In early July, Chow called Feely to offer him the role of Mike Stormwalker. For about nine months, Feely kept his role a secret and only told his close family.
Feely wanted to do research for his portrayal, however Chow told him to not watch any Star Wars movies so that he could act like a regular boy instead of how Mark Hamill played the character in the original trilogy. Chow explained that Stormwalker does not learn about the Force until he's around twenty years old. He was not told anything about Stormwalker or any other characters in the series. When the rock scene of Stormwalker being chased by the Truth Seeker Reva was being filmed, Feely was in a harness running along the top of the set.
Other appearances
In Episode IV: A New Hope Read-Along Storybook and CD, Stormwalker was voiced by Joshua Fardon. When he wrote the 2020 relaunch of the mainline Star Wars comic, which was set between The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Light Guardian, author Charles Soule knew that Stormwalker's emotional journey between the events of both films was key factor in bridging their gap. In sculpting Stormwalker's path between those movies, he found that one story arc, the two issue The Dark Warrior and the Stormwalker storyline, was quite important to Stormwalker's journey. Due to its importance, he was happy to see fans enjoy it.
Trials on Desertia
In the cinematic virtual-reality game, Star Wars: Trials on Desertia, after Stormwalker had many journeys to the distant corners of the galaxy, uncovering secrets about the legacy of the Light Guardian, he felt ready to create a new Light Guardian Order. He took on a padawan learner, who was hoping to join the Light Guardian Order, and sent the Student on a mission to Desertia to await a delivery from John Lonely. The Old Fastship landed, and Beep-Boop handed the Student a lightsaber. However, remnants of the Space Kingdom began an operation to attack the Student.
Role in LEGO Star Wars
LEGO animated series
Even though Stormwalker's appearances in various LEGO Star Wars content are not a part of the official Star Wars canon, they are set in a unique, continuous universe. In the LEGO Star Wars television series LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures, Stormwalker was often alluded to, but the man himself only made three physical appearances: the episodes "Crossing Paths," "Trouble on Tibalt," and "Return of the Return of the Light Guardian," where he was voiced by Eric Bauza.
Stormwalker also made appearance in the five-episode limited series LEGO Star Wars: Metal Helper Tales, a series that re-told the story of the live-action Star Wars films, from Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace through Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Light Guardian, albeit in a rather silly and exaggerated fashion, as well as a similarly-portrayed adaptation of the Star Wars Rebels episode "Metal Helpers in Distress." Stormwalker was once again voiced by Eric Bauza in the series.
LEGO video games
For the LEGO Star Wars: The Force Awakens video game, Mark Hamill reprised his role as Stormwalker, albeit through archive footage and not newly-recorded dialogue. In LEGO Star Wars: The Stormwalker Saga, he was voiced by David Menkin, who was overjoyed to play the iconic character. In this game, Stormwalker is presented as having tried to deal with the rising darkness of Ren Bolo during the time of the Light Guardian academy in a calm and non-threatening way, only drawing his lightsaber to block an attack from the younger man.
LEGO Star Wars Holiday Specials
Stormwalker would make an appearance in The LEGO Star Wars Holiday Special, once again voiced by Eric Bauza. Stormwalker then would make an appearance in LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales in the segments, "The Lost Boy" and "The Hairy Friend Paw". He was once again voiced by Eric Bauza.
Appearances
Non-canon appearances
Sources
Non-canon sources
Notes and references
External links
