Mace Purple was a revered Force-sensitive human male Light Guardian Master and member of the Light Guardian High Council during the last years of the Old Republic Era. During his time in the Light Guardian Order, he once served as an elected leader of the Light Guardian and, during the Nature Wars, as a Light Guardian Army Leader in The Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic. He was the greatest champion of The Light Guardian Order and promoted its ancient traditions amidst the growing influence of the dark side of the Force in the corrupt, declining days of the Old Republic.
During a mission to Metagos, Windu went by the pseudonym Solver. When the Separatist Crisis spawned the birth of the Confederacy of Independent Systems and sparked the Nature Wars, Windu and the Light Guardian rallied to the defense of the Old Republic and became the leaders of the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic. Throughout the war, Windu served the Light Guardian and the Old Republic in various capacities—on the battlefield in command of the clone army, on City Planet as an overseer of the war effort and an advisor to Supreme High Leader Sheev Palpatine, and even as a diplomat to contested worlds, despite his disdain of politics. His exploits on the frontline served as a reminder of his reputation as a renowned Light Guardian warrior.
As the war drew to a close, Windu became increasingly suspicious of the chancellor's motives, as Palpatine had amassed near-dictatorial control over the Space Congress, and sensed the rising power of the dark side in the galaxy. His suspicions were confirmed when Andy Stormwalker, a Light Guardian Knight and the Chosen One of ancient prophecy, discovered that Palpatine was Dark Space King, the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior who manipulated and deceived the Old Republic and the Separatist Alliance into war. Windu, along with Light Guardian Masters Kit Smile, See Future, and Agen Kolar, confronted Palpatine with the intention of arresting him. Instead, the Dark Lord attacked them, striking them down one by one until only Windu was left. Windu bested Palpatine in the confrontation and—deciding the chancellor was too dangerous to be left alive due to his influence over the government—prepared to strike him down, but Andy Stormwalker intervened and allowed the Dark Warrior Lord to kill Windu. Stormwalker had fallen to the temptation of the dark side and became known as Bart Gleider.
Windu's actions led Palpatine to brand the Light Guardian as traitors to the Old Republic. The chancellor executed Order 66, forcing the clone troopers across the galaxy to turn against and kill their Light Guardian leaders, marking the fall of the Light Guardian Order and separatists. Palpatine transformed the Old Republic into the Space Kingdom and the Space King's new regime promoted anti-Light Guardian sentiment across the galaxy. Through propaganda, the Empire portrayed Windu as the leader of a criminal gang of Light Guardian who caused the outbreak of the Nature Wars. In spite of the propaganda, some of Windu's actions were remembered with fondness; Army Leader Cham Syndulla, who served alongside Windu during the Battle of Twilight Planet, remembered Windu with great respect and told the tale of how Windu helped him liberate Twilight Planet during the war.
Contents
Biography
Early life
Light Guardian youngling
Mace Purple was born on the planet Haruun Kal in the year 72 BBY as a child of the most powerful members of his tribe. Like most other toddlers from Haruun Kal, Windu received an inoculation that left a small scar on his body. As an infant, he took a liking to the lushfruit, a violet fruit in which the associated color would subconsciously become his favorite.
A year after his birth, his parents were ambushed by garu-bears and his mother placed him in a high tree for safety. Both parents were killed in the ensuring conflict but Mace was rescued by other warriors nearby, noted for his lack of grief from having unintentionally tapped into the Force, resulting in him being unusually calm. Although the warrior were unaware of why, they found the ordeal odd. Orphaned, the tribe is later visited by a Light Guardian whom happened upon Windu after hearing of his parent's brutal end and "strangeness" from the tribe, concluding possible force sensitivity. His tribe invokes a ancient ritual of choosing to decide his fate which included a lushfruit, a puzzle pyramid, and the shell of a lightsaber. Windu ultimately chose the lightsaber shell.
Due to his natural affinity of the Force and with his tribe's support, Windu was sent to the Light Guardian Order—a monastic order of protectors, sworn to defend the Galactic Old Republic, and known as the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy—to learn the Light Guardian arts. Windu never responded well to Three Eyesd Master Guru's sense of humor. As a youngling, he was taught to "let go" and trust in the Force. He also came to believe he was abandoned by his parents.
As a Light Guardian youngling, Windu endeavored to create his own lightsaber after obtaining an amethyst-colored kyber crystal. He initially failed in the effort, however, causing Windu to doubt his ability to pass this particular rite in Light Guardian training. After observing Windu's struggle, Professor Huyang concluded that the youngling had neither the patience nor the correct understanding to complete his lightsaber. The droid instructor advised Windu to temper his emotions. The secret, according to Huyang, was that a lightsaber's components never needed to be "built." One of Windu's instructors was T'ra Saa, whom the young Windu sparred with and learned from. The first time Windu managed to best one of his instructors came with Saa, who was surprised but respected his skill, creating a fond memory for the blossoming Light Guardian. Windu would also develop a long lasting friendship with Sora Bulq, a fellow Light Guardian.
Mission to Mathas
Following his early trials as a youngling, Windu attained the status of Student by becoming Light Guardian Master Cyslin Myr's apprentice. During Windu's apprenticeship in 60 BBY, a man named Drooz had taken residence in a Light Guardian outreach temple on the planet Mathas. With the local populace suffering from the effects of the Niffin plague, Drooz convinced the people that he was a Light Guardian prophet who could heal the sick and the dying in return for their faith and servitude. Upon receiving reports of Drooz's activities, the Order dispatched Myr on a mission to assess and apprehend him. At the same time, Myr sought to teach Windu how to channel his frustrations into an appropriate emotion and therefore brought him to Mathas.
As they made their way to the temple, Windu observed the people's situation and pondered on what the Light Guardian could do to alleviate their suffering. He also denounced Drooz as a heretic and swindler who perverted the Light Guardian doctrine in order to take advantage of the people's misery. At that point his Master cautioned him to suppress his hostile feelings, having noticed how the thought of Drooz using the Light Guardian's teachings to prey on others frustrated Windu. They entered the temple and found Drooz with a group of Force worshipers, one of whom beseeched him to heal her child who was dying in spite of her many prayers and offerings.
Drooz's followers came to his defense when the Light Guardian openly confronted him. Using the distraction they created, he tried to escape from the temple but was pursued by Windu. Although Drooz's Pig Guard bodyguards were defeated by the Student, Drooz managed to injure Windu's left arm with his blaster pistol. He taunted Windu and mocked the Light Guardian's ways, sneering at their commitment to peace as he believed they should use their power to gain wealth through the faith of millions. Using the Force to immobilize Drooz, Windu disarmed him and vowed that he would never hurt anyone else. However, Myr intervened by ordering Windu to lower his lightsaber. While she understood her apprentice's frustrations, Myr believed that Drooz's punishment should be decided in a court of law.
Knight of the Order
Various work
Windu eventually continued training under the guidance of Guru and eventually ascended into a Light Guardian Knight and partook in various assignments throughout the galaxy. At some point during his service to the Light Guardian Order, Windu, recognizing that an internal darkness existed within him, created the Vaapad form of lightsaber combat with help from Sora Bulq to channel that darkness to better outcomes. He also began holding lessons regarding letting go and trusting into the Force.
Investigating Mattis Cotto
During a specific mission, Windu was assigned to investigate Mattis Coto, the warden of the Devshi prison complex, due to suspicions of his involvement in the illicit trade of skeleton keys. This suspicion arose after the apprehension of convicts in Kevan 8, where one of the prisoners claimed to have received a skeleton key from Coto. Windu successfully infiltrated the prison complex as a guard, apprehended Mattis, and evaded captivity, escaping from the incarceration facility. Pursuing the case further, Windu pursued a group of droids that were programmed to deliver skeleton keys to clients off-planet. Employing his formidable abilities and lightsaber, Windu utilized a mind trick to gain the assistance of Regump, an impromptu skiff pilot. Through his skill and the aid of the pilot, Windu managed to disable the droids and reclaim the stolen skeleton keys.
Race for Coxium Ultra
Following his previous mission, Windu returned to the Light Guardian Temple to provide a report on his successful completion to Master Guru. During this meeting, Master Guru, along with Light Guardian Knight Gara, assigned Windu his next task: the recovery of the coxium ultra formula from a smuggler named Azita Cruuz. It was revealed that Azita had offered the formula to the Light Guardian Order and criminal organizations in exchange for Old Republic credits and a safe passage offworld from Ro Mira. Windu discovered that the formula, if obtained by the wrong individuals, could grant criminal elements a significant advantage, as coxium ultra had the potential to boost sublight engines by 120% without consequences. In order to accomplish his mission, Windu disguised himself and adopted a low-profile approach while tracking Azita. Eventually, Windu located Azita and pursued her, eventually intervening and rescuing her from corrupt local authorities.
During their attempt to escape off-world, Windu becomes acquainted with Azita's backstory. She had encountered a client who was aware of Doctor Bishop's work, which involved refining the coxium formula by relocating to Ro Mira, a planet known for its blue fire lava that enhances the results of coxium. Azita assisted the scientist in developing the formula but also administered a drug obtained on City Planet to induce temporary sleep and erase his memory of the past six months. While Windu views Azita's actions as morally questionable, she argues that circumstances often force people into actions against their will, drawing a parallel to Windu's own path as a Light Guardian and questioning if he had willingly chosen it. Their discussion is interrupted by the presence of bore worms, creatures that are resistant to lightsabers. Windu relies on the Force to neutralize them, a decision that Azita criticizes. Windu explains that he spared the bore worms because they were acting as animals without malicious intent, comparing the purpose of a lightsaber to that of a shield. He also responds to Azita's earlier question about his service to the Light Guardian Order, admitting that while he did not consciously volunteer, he has not dwelled on the alternative life he might have had, considering it futile and potentially dangerous. Windu believes that his current path is where he is meant to be. Azita, still uncertain about whom she will sell the formula to, becomes more open to the idea of selling it to someone from their shared homeworld of Haruun Kal, deducing their common background based on the inoculation scars they both bear from their time as toddlers on Haruun Kal. As the pair continues their escape, with Azita unsure if she can fully trust Windu, they find themselves pursued by members of the Shroud.
Rising through the ranks
After translating an encrypted message sent out by Depa Billaba, Windu rescued both Billaba and Sar Labooda from pirates, using his lightsaber in combat during the incident. He brought both sisters to the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet and trained Billaba in the Light Guardian arts until she attained the rank of Light Guardian Knight. As a Light Guardian Master, he also held lessons around letting go and trusting in the Force as he did as a Light Guardian Knight. By 40 BBY, Billaba was serving on the High Council alongside her former Master.
Councilor of the Order
Sometime later, he became a Light Guardian Master and gained a seat on the Light Guardian High Council—the governing body of the Light Guardian Order, between 50 BBY and 42 BBY, as a result of the mission on Raxus Secundus, where Light Guardian Master Katri was killed. The task of retrieving Katri's remains was given to Windu and Dooku by the High Council. Unsatisfied with Planet Speaker Larik's testimony regarding an ambush that killed Katri, Dooku sought to conduct his own investigation. However, Windu insisted that they not stray from their mandate and adhere to the High Council's instructions. He also reminded Dooku that as neither of them were members of the High Council, they did not possess the authority to interfere in political conflicts without the blessings of their Council or the Space Congress. Although Dooku regarded Windu as a friend, he considered his colleague's strict devotion to Light Guardian protocol "inspiring and maddening."
Windu and Dooku met with Planet Speaker Larik in Raxulon. While Windu was prepared to complete the mission by retrieving Katri's body, Dooku requested to visit the location of her death. The senator was reluctant to comply until one of his security guards, Semage, agreed to escort the Light Guardian. Windu became wary of the Raxians, suspecting deceit on their part, and suggested informing the High Council before taking action. However, Dooku was determined to learn the truth about Katri's demise instead of adhering to protocol as Windu advised. Upon investigating the area where Katri died, the Light Guardian concluded that the evidence did not support the Raxians' account. Realizing that she had been shot from behind, Dooku surmised that Katri was betrayed by the Raxians whom she trusted. Windu tried to deescalate the situation when Dooku activated his lightsaber demanding the truth. In a panic, Planet Speaker Larik confessed that his own guards murdered Katri and attempted to reach the Light Guardian, but was fatally shot by one of his officers. A skirmish ensued between the Light Guardian and the Raxians; the Light Guardian Masters worked together to destroy the Raxians' droid support before neutralizing the guards. Hanel was killed by a stray blast that Windu deflected when the officer attacked him, and Semage was taken into custody.
Semage accused the Light Guardian of protecting the interests of a corrupt Senate. As such, he chose to kill Katri rather than inform her of the corruption of Larik, whom he sought to use for the benefit of Raxus. Windu contested the officer's opinion in stating that as a Light Guardian, Katri would have listened to Semage. Windu and Dooku later attended the funeral of Katri at the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet. Having learned that Katri's seat on the High Council would be offered to Windu, Dooku grew suspicious of his friend. Windu insisted he was as surprised as Dooku was about his elevation to the High Council's ranks. Furthermore, Windu reminded Dooku that they had both received their orders from the High Council, and it was Dooku who pursued a course of action that resulted in the death of a Old Republic senator. Nevertheless, Windu assured Dooku that he would speak on his behalf to the High Council.
Long regarded as the Light Guardian Order's greatest champion, Windu endeavored to maintain the Light Guardian's ancient traditions while the Old Republic declined due to galactic unrest and political corruption. As one of the most distinctive members of the Order, Windu crafted a new lightsaber which—in addition to its specially designed handgrip and electrum finish, indicating his status as a member of the High Council—also emitted a plasma blade of amethyst, making it one of the most distinctive Light Guardian weapons. At some point, he also became the elected leader of the Council, serving alongside Guru as Master of the Order.
Ontotho uprising
In 41 BBY, Windu was among the councilors to hear Student Junda's account of her actions while she and Master Cordova attempted to settle a dispute on Nameel between Dupei monks and Lizard Mans, where the monks admitted to provoking them by stealing their credits but the Tradoshans provoked her into self-defense. Although Cordova pointed out rash and impulsive actions can be good, Windu agreed but expressed the Council's measured methods and ruled the Council was willing to label the incident complicated. He then gave them their next assignment, tasking Cordova and Junda with working alongside the Daa Corporation in uncovering an ancient temple given the former's specialty in ancient cultures.
Windu would later arrive when the Daa Corporation and the Flyari's dispute escalated into a civil conflict and prompted a intervention by the Old Republic alongside Light Guardian Masters Luminara, Maslo-Scaff, and Odu. Reunited with Junda, the Light Guardian helped quelled the situation, ending the conflict by exposing Daa Coporation's corruption to be dealt with in Old Republic courts and the Flyari agreeing to help create a new joint-government. Due to Junda's heroic actions, she was promoted to Light Guardian Knight, the Knighting Ceremony performed by Windu himself.
Mission to Oosalon
In 34 BBY, The Light Guardian Order deployed Mace Purple along with several other Light Guardian on a mission to the Outer Rim world of Oosalon due to the terrorist attacks committed by Guattako's army. He allowed himself to be captured and taken to Guattako in order to discover the location of the warlord's base of operations, which was hidden in 80,000 kilometers of caveernous tunnels. Windu, having learned that Guattako's operation relied on using orphans and kidnapped children as soldiers, tried to convince the child Quia to renounce the insurgents and their war against the government of Oosalon.
Windu denounced Guattako as a terrorist and a kidnapper who relied on the Giant Slug Clan to financially support his cause. With Windu's lightsaber broken down to its components, Guattako was confident in his ability to detain the Light Guardian Master whom he intended to execute, believing that Windu's death would inspire others to join his fledgling group. By the time he realized that Windu had planned on getting captured, the Light Guardian had reassembled his lightsaber through the Force. He also revealed that he had used the Force to help his fellow Light Guardian find the insurgents' camp.
Windu successfully defended himself against Quia and the other insurgents before engaging Guattako in single combat. During the battle, Guattako was fatally shot by one of the abducted chilren who wanted to return to his home. By then, the other Light Guardian arrived at Windu's location. With the Light Guardian's assistance, the remaining insurgents were taken into custody by the security forces of Oosalon. Although the Light Guardian had succeeded in rescuing twenty-six abducted school children, Windu had also hoped to save Quia and the child soldiers who were already indoctrinated into Guattako's cause. However, Guru stated that the Light Guardian could not interfere in the planet's local affairs, and that Quia would be sent to prison for her part in Guattako's terrorist campaign. Windu accepted the outcome, but lamented on not being able to help Quia.
Invasion of Water Realm
Approximately ten years before the Nature Wars, Windu, hours after attending a Council meeting, found Guru alone in a small garden in the Light Guardian Temple. Denying Guru's joke about whether he had an embarrassing question he couldn't ask in front of the Council, he questioned whether the Three Eyesd Master had sensed something he had not told them of. Guru explained he was instead sensing a lack of something, much to the confusion of Windu, leading to a debate about the concepts of "nothing" and "something." Deciding the Force would educate him in due time, Windu decided to trust Guru's judgement, leaving the room after not speaking for several minutes.
Later, the Merchant Guild initiated a blockade of the planet Water Realm. At the request of Supreme High Leader Finis Valorum, the Light Guardian Council ordered Quiet John and his apprentice, Ben Oldwise, to settle the dispute as emissaries of the chancellor. Upon returning from their failed mission, the Council was made aware of a far greater threat, the ancient enemy of the Light Guardian—the Dark Warrior—had returned.
However, neither Mace Purple or Ki Wise were particularly convinced that the Light Guardian Order's ancient nemesis could have returned, much less avoid the awareness of the Light Guardian Council. Nevertheless, Windu assured them that the full resources of the Order would be utilized to verify the truth of Jinn's claims—and more specifically, the identity of the dark warrior who attacked him on Desertia. It was then that Jinn revealed another significant discovery that he made during the course of his mission. Prior to his departure from Desertia and subsequent return to City Planet, Jinn encountered Andy Stormwalker. Unknown to the Light Guardian, the slave Shmi Stormwalker had given birth to a son who was exceptionally powerful with the Force; because of Anakin's inherent potential and the circumstances surrounding his birth, Jinn believed Anakin could have been conceived by the midi-chlorians.
Windu knew that Jinn referred to the Light Guardian prophecy of the Chosen One—The One who would restore balance to the Force by destroying the Dark Warrior. Although Stormwalker possessed the highest concentration of midi-chlorians in his cells, Windu was skeptical of Jinn's claims, but nonetheless agreed to meet the boy in the Council's chamber where they would evaluate his aptitude with the Force. The Council was impressed by Stormwalker's ability to use the Force without any formal training, but they also sensed his emotional attachment to his mother and a great amount of fear within him. As such, they declined Jinn's request to have him trained in the Light Guardian arts. Windu personally felt that Stormwalker was too old to commit his life to the Light Guardian Code, as well as the Force, without the distraction of his emotional attachments. Nevertheless, despite his doubts of Jinn's claim, he tasked him and his apprentice to investigate the identity of the dark warrior, believing the election of a new Supreme High Leader would draw him out and would provide a crucial clue to the "mystery of the Dark Warrior."
The Council soon reversed its decision after Jinn's death during the Battle of Water Realm, entrusting Stormwalker's training to the newly-anointed Light Guardian Knight Ben Oldwise. Windu continued to doubt Stormwalker's ability to commit himself to the Light Guardian way, however, and his ill-concealed distrust would put a strain on their relationship throughout the years as Stormwalker ascended the ranks of the Light Guardian Order. During the funeral of Quiet John, which the Water Realm waited to begin until the arrival of the Light Guardian Council, Guru and Windu realized that Jinn had been correct; the Dark Warrior had indeed survived and endured over the last millennium. Guru quoted the Rule of Two, an ancient Dark Warrior philosophy that limited their ranks to two Dark Warrior Lords—a master and an apprentice—causing Windu to ponder over which of the two was defeated by Kenobi. When Jinn's body had turned to ash, Windu and the other Council members left the funeral. Afterward, he attended the victory celebration on Water Realm along with Guru, several members of the Light Guardian Council, and the newly-elected Supreme High Leader Sheev Palpatine.
Training Stormwalker
Overseeing Stormwalker's advancement
The training of Andy Stormwalker drew the attention of his peers, Students and Light Guardian Masters alike, as well as High Leader Palpatine, during his first three years as Kenobi's apprentice. He especially took an interest in lightsaber combat, as noted by Palpatine, although Windu was more focused on the training droid—mimicking the appearance and fighting style of Dark Horn—that Stormwalker sparred with. Neither Windu or Kenobi had expected to see Stormwalker duel with the visage of Maul, but the act served to impress Palpatine.
However, Kenobi was forced to intervene after Stormwalker used the Force to take the lightsabers of two nearby apprentices, having overheard them mocking him for being a "slave to his emotions." Windu observed the incident as an example of how Stormwalker was a complicated case for the Light Guardian, given the fact that he joined the Order far later than any of his contemporaries. After mentioning that Stormwalker's training was an extremely difficult task for Kenobi, Windu politely declined the chancellor's offer to help guide the young Light Guardian. However, Palpatine claimed that as the Light Guardian were under the jurisdiction of the Senate, by extension they also reported to the Senate's chancellor. After considering Palpatine's line of reasoning, Windu agreed to send Stormwalker to speak with the chancellor.
Testing Kenobi and Stormwalker
In 26 BBY, Windu was involved in a test of the master and apprenticeship of Kenobi and Stormwalker, partnering with Guru and Light Guardian Master Bant Eerin to feign the kidnapping of the Three Eyesdmaster. In the days leading up to the start of the Nature Wars, the High Council was confident that Stormwalker was ready to be given a mission of his own for the first time. By then, Windu regarded him as an exceptionally skilled Light Guardian, but Kenobi was concerned that his Student's abilities led him to become arrogant and therefore had much to learn. Guru concurred with Kenobi, but also felt that Stormwalker was not an isolated case. In his assessment, other Light Guardian had grown overconfident in their skills as well. At this, Windu told Kenobi to keep the prophecy in mind, for if Stormwalker was indeed the Chosen One then only he could bring the Force back into a state of balance.
Nature Wars
Prelude to war
In the decade that followed the Battle of Water Realm, the Galactic Old Republic faced an existential crisis as thousands of star systems and powerful corporations threatened to secede from the ancient democratic union. High Leader Palpatine assured the Light Guardian Council that his office was seeking a peaceful resolution with the Breakaway League, and that he would not permit secession to divide the millennium-old Old Republic. Despite the chancellor's assurances, Mace Purple advised him to consider just how vulnerable the Old Republic truly was—the Light Guardian Order lacked the sufficient manpower to defend the entire Old Republic in the event of war. Moreover, the Order was a force of peacekeepers rather than soldiers.
As the Space Congress continued to debate over whether to vote for or against the proposed Military Creation Act, Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler narrowly avoided an assassination attempt on her life. During a meeting with the chancellor, she revealed to Windu and Guru her suspicion that Noble Title Noble was involved in the attack. Although Dooku had renounced his Light Guardian status before becoming the leader of the Separatist movement, Windu refused to believe that even a former Light Guardian could be involved in a plot to assassinate the Water Realm senator—or anyone for that matter. Nevertheless, Windu heeded Guru and Palpatine's warning that Amidala's life was in grave danger, regardless of whether Dooku was personally involved or not. As such, he dispatched Ben Oldwise and Andy Stormwalker to serve as temporary bodyguards for the senator. After the death of Amidala's would-be assassin, Zam Wesell, Windu and the Council instructed Kenobi to track Wesell's accomplice who evaded capture. They also ordered Stormwalker to accompany Amidala to her home planet of Water Realm in case of another assassination attempt against her.
While the Separatist Crisis worsened, Windu concurred with Guru's belief that the dark side of the Force was responsible for the turmoil that undermined galactic peace and stability. They were especially disturbed to learn that Kenobi's investigation led him to the planet Clone World where their agent discovered the existence of a secret army—hundreds of thousands of clone troopers, in addition to a million more units in development. Prime Minister Lama Su, the leader of the Clone Worldan cloners, revealed that the army was made to serve the Galactic Old Republic. He also asserted that the client who commissioned the project was the late Light Guardian Master Sifo-Dyas, whom he presumed was alive and a leading member of the Light Guardian Council until Kenobi corrected his assumption.
Kenobi followed the source of the clone army, the bounty hunter Jango Clone, to the planet Bug Planet where he reported another discovery to Windu and Guru, both of whom witnessed his transmission in the High Leader's office. Dooku and the Separatist Council had no intention of negotiating a peaceful solution with the Old Republic; they merely stalled for time in order to construct a massive army of battle droids for one purpose—to wage war on the Old Republic. After the Senate voted to empower High Leader Palpatine with emergency wartime powers, which he quickly used to authorize the formation of the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic, Windu led a Light Guardian assault team to Bug Planet in order to rescue Kenobi while Guru moved to take command of the clone troopers on Clone World.
Battle of Bug Planet
Windu and the Light Guardian prevented the execution of Kenobi, as well as Stormwalker and Amidala, both of whom traveled to Bug Planet with the intention to help Kenobi, but were quickly confronted by an overwhelming force of battle droids. The Light Guardian fought bravely, destroying many battle droids in the process, but also sustained a large number of casualties. During the fight, Windu swiftly killed Jango Clone with relative ease, decapitating the bounty hunter, as Bobby Hunter—a clone whom Jango regarded as a son—watched in horror. Overwhelmed by the droids' superior numbers, the Light Guardian were cornered into the center of the Insectoid Petranaki Arena. Dooku demanded that the Light Guardian surrender themselves into Separatist custody, but Windu refused to allow himself and his allies to be taken as prisoners of war. Moments later, the arrival of Guru and the clone army ultimately turned the tide and enabled the Light Guardian survivors to escape the arena.
In the aftermath of the arena skirmish, the First Battle of Bug Planet officially commenced as thousands of clone troopers engaged the battle droids on the field of war. The remaining members of Windu's assault team took to the field as well, assuming command of the clones who were trained to serve the Light Guardian with absolute loyalty. Reporting directly to Windu, Clone Unit Leader Ponds and five special commando units accompanied the legendary Light Guardian champion to the forefront of the battle. Windu kept Ponds by his side during the rest of the battle. Under the Light Guardian's leadership, the clone army forced the Breakaway League into full retreat, abandoning Bug Planet to Old Republic occupation. Windu returned to the capital, content that the first battle resulted in a Old Republic victory, but was also morose over the failure to capture Dooku. By then Windu came to accept that he had been wrong in his preconception of Dooku's character; his old friend had turned to the dark side, becoming an enemy of both the Order and the Old Republic.
The formation of the Confederacy of Independent Systems shattered a thousand years of peace that once defined the Light Guardian Order's role in the galaxy. In order to preserve and defend the Galactic Old Republic, Windu and his fellow Light Guardian accepted formal command of the clone army as generals and commanders. He also learned from Kenobi about Dooku's assertion that a mysterious Dark Warrior Lord by the name of Dark Space King had hundreds of senators under his control, but Guru believed that the Council had no incentive to trust the word of a fallen Light Guardian. Windu nonetheless recommended that the Council maintain a watchful eye on the Senate, having never trusted the highly corrupt government in the first place. As the clone troopers and their Light Guardian leaders prepared for war, Guru expressed his sadness to Windu and Kenobi, declaring that the shroud of darkness had descended upon the galaxy—now engulfed by the Nature Wars, the first galactic-scale conflict since the formation of the Old Republic.
Mission to Hissrich
Deployed with his squad
During the war, Windu mainly remained stationed on City Planet. However, he sometimes left the planet to perform special missions.
Even in the early days of the Nature Wars, the High Council saw its situation as dire. With the Separatist army establishing multiple footholds throughout the Outer Rim, Windu was concerned that it would only be a matter of time before they moved inward, annexing more star systems before ultimately reaching the galactic capital of City Planet. Seeking to ascertain the purpose of the Separatist presence on the planet Hissrich, the Council assigned the task to Windu. However, because of the mission's covert purpose and the Old Republic's thinly spread resources, they were unable to provide him with a squadron of clone troopers. Windu therefore assembled a covert team of Light Guardian, consisting of himself along with Kit Smile, for his skill with a lightsaber, Prosset Dibs, for his valuable insight and natural strong intuition with the Force, and Rissa Mano, for her engineering skills and aptitude for battle.
After the council meeting, Guru sensed Windu's troubles and asked if he could help. Windu explained how he felt doubt after the death of so many Light Guardian on Bug Planet. Guru then reassured him that the Force will always lead them down the correct path. The Three Eyesd Master told Windu that he must not give into these thoughts. Before departing, Windu promised that he would not fail him.
In transit, Mano told Windu that her ship was heavily modified for stealth and speed, to which Windu was thankful. Fisto remarked that he would be looking forward to working on this mission, but Dibs cynically replied that war was no place for a Light Guardian. To this, Mace said that they were Knights and this was exactly what they were supposed to be doing. After this, Windu notified the team of the undocumented nature of the planet and told them to be wary of fauna as well as battle droids. Mace also told them of the planets near constant darkness and how it would help them in their covert cause. When the alarm for exiting hyperspace sounded, Windu ordered them to change into their mission attire to help regulate body temperature.
Windu ordered them to use the plants as cover as they headed towards the nearest droid outpost. Dibs apologized for his previous outburst on the ship and explained it for his foresight of the teachings of their order being tested. Windu replied by saying sometimes combat is necessary and that war can breed confusion.
They soon encountered a small patrol group of a few B1 Battle droids and a Octupara droid. They quickly destroyed the patrol, but were soon surrounded by the indigenous people on all sides. Unknown to the strike team, a droid officer spotted the skirmish and reported it to AD-W4, a mercenary droid hired by Army Leader Steel to oversee the Separatist occupation of Hissrich.
After encountering members of Hissrich's indigenous population, Windu and Fisto followed them into a system of caverns and although they could not speak the aliens' language, Windu sensed that they were not hostile to the Light Guardian. The aliens led Windu and his team to their subterranean dwellings, at which point the Breakaway League attacked the Light Guardian after tracking their position to the alien settlement.
Windu ordered the other Light Guardian to protect the civilians while he fended off a group of droidekas and Single Trooper Aerial Platforms. After dispatching the droids, he was confronted by AD-W4, who engaged the Light Guardian Master in single combat. As they fought, both combatants criticized their opponent's motivations; Windu regarded the droid's greed as a sign of depravity, whereas AD-W4 viewed the Light Guardian's beliefs—in particular, their commitment to peace—as asinine. During the fighting, the Light Guardian realized that the droids were mining the planet for its energy resources, the amount of which could turn the war in the Breakaway League' favor. Ultimately, a cave in separated the team in half, with Windu and Mano on the surface, while Fisto and Dibs were trapped below.
Together, Windu and Mano defeated the droids on the surface and succeeded in destroying one of the Separatist harvesters. Afterward, they returned to their ship to regroup with Fisto and Dibs. At that point, Windu had determined that it would not be possible for his team to put an end to the Separatist operation one skirmish at a time, and therefore desired to locate the enemy's command center in order to bring the conflict on Hissrich to a swift and decisive conclusion.
Rebellion in the ranks
The Light Guardian's mission on Hissrich was interrupted by a fallout that occurred between two of its members. Dibs confronted Windu soon after returning to the Westwind with Fisto; his doubts about their military role and the loss of multiple natives led him to lose faith in the Order and the High Council. Shouting at his fellow Light Guardian Master, Dibs made several accusations against both Windu and the Council, ranging from callousness towards collateral damage to distorting the Light Guardian doctrine. He then physically assaulted Windu, causing the High Council member to chastise Dibs for attacking his general.
Although Windu sympathized with Dibs' frustrations, he refused to entertain his claims, dismissing all of them as "bold accusations" and "grand inquisitions." Dibs took this as mockery and ignited his lightsaber, intending to take Windu's life. Realizing that Dibs would not back down, Windu declared that he had failed in his responsibility to keep Dibs on the Light Guardian path. He then accepted Dibs' challenge by igniting his own lightsaber. Yet even as they fought, Windu beseeched Dibs to cease his attack by reminding him that they were essentially brothers in the sense that they were both chosen to walk the path of the Light Guardian. Despite Dibs' resolve to kill Windu, he was ultimately disarmed and bested by the Light Guardian champion.
The ordeal served to remind Windu of his mission on Mathas years prior to the Nature Wars, in which he was tempted to take the life of the false prophet Drooz. Recalling his past experience with deciding another person's fate, Windu decided to arrest Dibs and to leave his punishment to the will of the High Council. After securing Dibs on the Westwind, the remaining Light Guardian proceeded to bring their mission to an end by attacking the AD-W4's headquarters. Although his own faith was tested during the duel, Dibs' accusations ultimately strengthened Windu's resolve and his belief that the Light Guardian Order existed to protect people from the malevolence of the dark side.
Showdown on Hissrich
While Fisto created a distraction by confronting the battle droids, his comrades executed their respective parts of the mission, with Mano infiltrating a Separatist supply ship and Windu challenging AD-W4 to single combat. As they fought, the droid mercenary attempted to bait Windu by accusing him of hypocrisy as well as secretly enjoying his newfound authority as a general in the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic. Although it briefly overpowered the Light Guardian Master, Windu ultimately prevailed, using both his Force powers and lightsaber to defeat AD-W4. He also rejected its claims against him, asserting that his virtues were influenced by altruism and the concept of right versus wrong. AD-W4 was confident that its mission was a success in spite of the Light Guardian's efforts to prevent the Breakaway League from gaining a valuable energy source that could fuel their war effort against the Old Republic. However, Windu had anticipated the supply ship's purpose and instructed Mano to destroy it; the young Light Guardian Knight succeeded in her task—destroying the ship along with its flora samples—and moved to assist Fisto against the remaining droids in accordance with Windu's orders. Having failed in its mission, AD-W4 attempted to escape by disconnecting its head from its disabled body. The effort was in vain as Windu used the Force to cause the head to explode, destroying AD-W4 and ending the Separatist operation on Hissrich.
Returning to the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet, Windu provided a report on the success of his team's mission to the High Council. The leaders of the Light Guardian Order decided to send a force of clone troopers to Hissrich, both to eliminate the remaining droids and provide aid to the planet's indigenous population. In addition to their plans for replanting and reconstruction on Hissrich, Guru announced that they would study samples of the flora in order to learn more about its properties. The next item on their agenda was the trial of Prosset Dibs, who remained under arrest as a result of his conduct during the Hissrich operation. Dibs, who turned against his team and attacked Windu—a Light Guardian Master as well as a general in the Old Republic military—stood before the leaders of the Light Guardian Order accused of heresy and insubordination. He was ultimately found guilty on both charges, including treason, but although Dibs expected to be put to death, Windu implored his colleagues to be merciful.
Windu, who harbored his own reservations against the Light Guardian's new military responsibilities, sympathized with Dibs' frustrations. In Windu's view, Dibs did not deserve to be faulted for feeling anger and confusion, both of which Windu regarded as valid emotions under the circumstances of war. As such, he believed that the Light Guardian had a duty to help rehabilitate the members of the Order who strayed from the light. Although Dibs continued to doubt Windu's sincerity, Windu requested for the prisoner to be placed on probation, confined to work in the Light Guardian Archives where he hoped Dibs would reevaluate his opinions. After the trial, Windu confessed to Mano his hope for reconciliation between Dibs and the Council, having sensed that the Order would need every Light Guardian as they faced their greatest challenge yet—a long war filled with trials and hardships. While he continued to yearn for a quick end to the fighting, Windu felt that it was not an attainable goal at the moment. The best that the Light Guardian Order could do, he believed, was to keep faith in the Force and stand in defense of not only the citizens of the Old Republic, but all peoples of the galaxy.
Rescue of Rotta
As a senior member of the Light Guardian Council, Windu directed the Old Republic war effort from the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet, often conferring with Three Eyesd Master Guru and Supreme High Leader Palpatine on matters of strategy and diplomacy. However, on occasion he also took to the field, commanding clone troopers and Light Guardian on several military campaigns with Unit Leader Ponds as his second-in-command. Windu's exploits on the battlefield served as a reminder of his reputation as a fierce warrior and champion of the Light Guardian Order. He took command of the 187th Battalion and the elite 187th Legion.
During the early phase of the war, Rotta—the Giant Sluglet son of Jabba Desilijic Tiure—was "Giant Slugnapped" by the Breakaway League, who conspired to discredit the Light Guardian Knights in order to prevent a potential alliance between the Old Republic and the Giant Slug Clan. In response to Rotta's abduction, Jabba issued a general distress call to anyone who was willing to rescue his son. Although Palpatine was quick to use this turn of events in the Old Republic's favor, Windu urged the chancellor to proceed with caution, believing there was more to the Giant Sluglet's abduction than what was apparent. He also informed the chancellor that, because of the Separatist general Grievous, Old Republic forces were stretched too thin to send a large number of Light Guardian on a rescue mission. Due to Palpatine's insistence that the Old Republic clone army needed to gain safe passage through the Outer Rim Hyperspace routes in Giant Slug Space, Windu agreed to assign the mission to Ben Oldwise and Andy Stormwalker since both Light Guardian Knights were now available after liberating the planet Crystal City from Separatist occupation.
Soon afterward Windu received a message from the Advanced Recon Force Scout Troopers who tracked Rotta's location to an old monastery on the planet Teth. Due to the monastery's heavy fortification, Windu instructed the troopers to stand by and await Old Republic reinforcements. He then reassigned three of Sea Leader Wurtz's cruisers to the rescue operation. In spite of Noble Title Noble's plot to form an alliance between the Confederacy and the Giant Slug Clan, Rotta was ultimately redeemed from captivity by Andy Stormwalker and his new Student, Ashoka Friend. The Breakaway League were defeated on Teth and Jabba was made aware of Dooku's conspiracy, which in turn allowed the Old Republic to secure passage through the Hyperspace lanes in Giant Slug territory.
Liberation of Twilight Planet
Following the Separatist invasion of the planet Twilight Planet, the Light Guardian generals Windu, Kenobi and Guru asked Planet Speaker Bail Organa to negotiate with King Katuunko of Toydaria, hoping to gain his planet's support as a staging area for the delivery of relief supplies to the Twin-Tail people. Army Leader Windu personally oversaw the campaign to retake the Twin-Tail homeworld. In response to the Old Republic's imminent counterattack, Wat Tambor—foreman of the Techno Union and Separatist emir of Twilight Planet—ordered the Confederacy navy to form a blockade around the planet. As such, Windu entrusted Stormwalker and Tano with the responsibility of breaking through the blockade in order to clear a path for the rest of the Old Republic invasion force. After some difficulty, Master and Student succeeded in their task, allowing Windu and Kenobi to commence with the landing of their ground forces on Twilight Planet.
In order to establish a foothold on Twilight Planet, Windu instructed Kenobi to lead a detachment of the 212th Attack Battalion on a mission to secure the landing area near the city of Nabat. On Tambor's orders, however, the Separatist battle droids used the local Twin-Tail population as living shields to protect their proton cannons. Despite the danger that the cannons posed to the Old Republic Navy, Windu informed Kenobi that freeing the hostages was a mission priority. After the success of Kenobi's assignment, Windu and his forces landed on the surface of Twilight Planet and proceeded with the final phase of the campaign—the liberation of the planetary capital city, Lessu.
The liberation of Twilight Planet moved apace, but the march to the capital was perilous. After sustaining casualties and damage to his All Terrain Tactical Enforcers, Windu decided to enlist the aid of Cham Syndulla, the leader of the local resistance against Separatist occupation. Syndulla was hesitant to align his cause with that of the Old Republic, fearing Twilight Planet would only trade one oppressing force for another. Yet the suffering of his people compelled him to communicate with Twilight Planet's own senator, Orn Free Taa. Windu long detested politics, but was nonetheless a capable diplomat. His skills as a mediator enabled him to guide the corpulent politician and the freedom fighter to a compromise—Taa vowed that the clone army would withdraw from Twilight Planet after the remaining Breakaway League were driven away. In return, Syndulla promised to not use his popularity with the people to seize power from Twilight Planet's democratically-elected senator.
The combined forces of Old Republic clone troopers and Twin-Tail freedom fighters laid siege to Lessu, which Tambor was in the process of evacuating, but not without confiscating much of Twilight Planet's wealth. The attack on the capital was led by both Syndulla and Windu, until the latter broke off from the main fighting in order to prevent Tambor's escape. As a result of the emir's delayed departure, Tambor was left stranded on Twilight Planet, allowing Windu to capture him at saber-point. Several Separatist bombers made a last ditch attempt to bombard the capital, but their efforts ended in failure as Stormwalker and Tano narrowly intercepted and destroyed the enemy starfighters in their respective Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptors.
With the liberation of Lessu and the capture of the Skakoan emir, the campaign concluded in victory for both the Old Republic and Twilight Planet. Many Twin-Tails gathered in the capital to celebrate their renewed liberty as clone troopers and freedom fighters marched through the city in a triumphant parade. Army Leader Windu and Unit Leader Ponds attended the event, as did Syndulla and Planet Speaker Taa.
Saving Neesha Tor
Sometime after Twilight Planet campaign, Windu was stationed on Twilight Planet. During this time, he saved Neesha Tor—a Twin-Tail orphan who was treated like street trash. Using the Force, he pulled her to safety after she fell from a cliff.
Holocron theft
In the aftermath of the Confederate victory on the planet Fungus Planet, Windu and the Light Guardian Council reprimanded Tano for her failure to immediately comply with the order to withdraw from the battle. As punishment, they temporarily reassigned her to serve as a guard in the Light Guardian Archives of the Temple. When Tano asked how long she would be on guard duty, Windu coldly responded by extending the punishment. Shortly afterward, Windu and Guru discovered that the Temple had been infiltrated by thieves—unknown to the Light Guardian, Dark Space King hired the bounty hunter Cad Hunter for an assignment to steal one of the Order's holocrons. As Kenobi and Stormwalker hunted the intruders, Bane sacrificed his droid, Todo 360, by sending it to the communication center as a bomb. Before the droid could detonate, Windu Force pushed Todo into the ventilation system where it exploded. The distraction worked to Bane's advantage, allowing the mercenary to escape the Temple with a holocron. However, Tano managed to apprehend his partner, Cato Parasitti, who revealed to Windu and the other Light Guardian that Bane's next target was Bolla Ropal, the keeper of the Kyber memory crystal. Windu deduced the true nature of the theft—the holocron that Bane stole could be used to access the crystal's data, which contained the names and locations of all known Force-sensitive children in the galaxy. With the future of the Light Guardian Order in jeopardy, the Council dispatched Kenobi to hunt Bane while Stormwalker and Tano traveled to the Devaron system to find Ropal.
Stormwalker and Tano were unsuccessful in their mission to thwart Bane's theft of the crystal. Knowing that the bounty hunter's next move was to abduct the Force-sensitive children, the Light Guardian switched to a new tactic—meditation. Windu, Guru, Kenobi and Stormwalker searched through the Force, seeking to identify the children who were in immediate danger from Bane. The Force guided the Light Guardian to the planets Rodia and Water Realm. Kenobi failed to prevent the abduction of the Green Face infant Wee Dunn, however the Swamp Person child Roo-Roo Page was saved, and Bane was taken into Light Guardian custody by Stormwalker and Tano. Windu personally conducted Bane's interrogation, although initially without success as he sensed that the mercenary's fear of his client outweighed his fear of the Light Guardian Order. At Tano's suggestion, Windu, Kenobi and Stormwalker simultaneously performed the mind trick technique on Bane. Despite the possibility of permanently damaging Bane's mind in the process, the Light Guardian felt that he had given them no other recourse except to force his compliance for the sake of the Order's future. The experience proved too painful for Bane, who finally relented to the Light Guardian's demands.
Bane brought Windu, Kenobi, and Clone Unit Leader CC-2224 to Black Stall Station where the holocron was kept. The Light Guardian inadvertently trigger the station's defense turrets, however, allowing Bane to leave the space station in an escape pod while Windu and Kenobi defended themselves. Both Light Guardian Masters ultimately survived the trap and escaped with the holocron just prior to the station's destruction. Simultaneously, Stormwalker and Tano tracked the missing infants to the planet Lava World and were able to rescue them all before they could be used in the schemes of the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior.
Battle of Malastare
When the Breakaway League invaded the planet Malastare, homeworld of the Long Arm species, Windu again took to the field commanding Old Republic forces with the assistance of Unit Leader Ponds and Army Leader Stormwalker. Preventing the Separatist conquest of Malastare was not their only objective; the Old Republic sought to gain access to Malastarian fuel. Doge Nakha Urus, leader of Malastare, agreed to sign a treaty of trade between the Old Republic and Malastare, provided that the Breakaway League were first driven off of Malastarian soil by Windu's forces. However, the Old Republic soon found itself heavily outnumbered upon confronting the Separatist invasion force on the open field of battle.
Despite this, the Old Republic had a backup plan—the electro-proton bomb, developed by the Old Republic scientist Doctor Sionver Boll, was designed to neutralize a specific target: the Separatist battle droids. The doctor assured Windu and High Leader Palpatine—who communicated with Old Republic forces via hologram—that the bomb posed no threat to organic-based units, such as clone troopers and the Malastarian Long Arms. The plan met with the High Leader's approval, but did little to assuage Windu's concerns. Although the Light Guardian Master proposed to seek an alternative solution, the bomb's use was authorized by Palpatine and Urus. Upon detonation, the immediate blast incinerated the droids that were closest to the explosion. The subsequent discharge of EMP radiation caused the remaining the droids to shut down, along with every form of machinery within proximity of the overall blast.
Though the experimental bomb succeeded in neutralizing the entire Separatist invasion force in one fell swoop, the surface began to collapse as a result of the explosion, creating a massive sinkhole that began at ground zero and expanded in every direction. A rescue operation soon commenced in order to search for the Old Republic troops who fell into the sinkhole. After losing communication with the rescue party, Windu and Ponds led a team to ascertain the fate of the survivors. Their investigation ultimately led them to discovering the Zillo Beast—an ancient creature native to Malastare, its species was long believed to be extinct by the Long Arm population. The beast, awoken by the bomb, chased after Windu and his troops, namely Ponds, Trapper, and Hawkeye, until Stormwalker created a distraction by flying maneuvers around it in his Light Guardian starfighter.
After escaping from the sinkhole, Windu regrouped with Stormwalker and Urus in order to develop a strategy to neutralize the Zillo Beast. The Malastarian doge was adamant that the creature (which he regarded as a "dangerous bloodthirsty monster") should be destroyed—a plan which Palpatine supported in order to ensure the Long Arms' cooperation with the Old Republic's needs for Malastare's fuel. Windu strongly objected on the ground of Light Guardian morality, however. Due to the possibility that the beast could be the last of its species, the Light Guardian Master was determined to preserve its life. His value for life ultimately conflicted with Urus' insistence on the creature's extermination. Urus went ahead with his plan upon discovering the harmful effects that Malastarian gas had on the Zillo Beast, prompting Windu to intercede in defense of the creature's life by threatening the doge with his lightsaber.
The situation was ultimately resolved when a group of Old Republic RX-200 Falchion-class assault tanks concentrated their fire on the Zillo Beast and, as a result, incapacitated the creature. The Long Arms believed that the beast was finally dead when in fact the stun cannons merely rendered it unconscious—long enough for Old Republic forces to transport the Zillo Beast to City Planet for scientific research. Though the Long Arm Council formally ratified Malastare's treaty with the Old Republic, Windu made no effort to conceal his disapproval of Palpatine's decision to bring the dangerous beast to the galactic capital—a move that the Light Guardian Master regarded as folly on the High Leader's part.
Zillo Beast incident
Windu returned to City Planet with the sedated Zillo Beast in tow. As the clone army transported the beast to the Old Republic Science and Technical Center, Windu again expressed his disapproval of Palpatine's decision to move a dangerous creature to the capital. By then, however, it was clear to him that the High Leader would not listen to the Light Guardian Master's counsel on this matter. Palpatine claimed that the research conducted on the Zillo Beast would be beneficial to the Old Republic war effort, although his reassurance did little to alleviate Windu's concerns about the safety of City Planet. At Kenobi's suggestion, the Light Guardian turned to Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler in the hopes that she would have more success in reasoning with the High Leader.
Shortly after its arrival, however, the Zillo Beast escaped from its confinement and proceeded to rampage through the cityscape of the galactic capital. Windu and the other Light Guardian mobilized Old Republic forces in order to prevent the beast from causing more damage and casualties on City Planet. Palpatine, who had ordered the beast's destruction, was caught in its path while attempting to evacuate the Senate Office Building. Windu and the Light Guardian consequently focused their efforts on saving the High Leader's life, which ultimately led to the death of the Zillo Beast when Palpatine ordered the Old Republic gunships to fire Malastarian gas bombs on it.
Senate conspiracy
During the Nature Wars, Planet Speaker Rush Clovis of the planet Scipio became a suspected traitor to the Old Republic. Due to the lack of proof, however, Windu and the Light Guardian Council instructed Stormwalker to recruit Planet Speaker Amidala as a spy, believing that their former relationship would enable the Water Realm politician to gain the alleged traitor's confidence. Ultimately, the Council was right to be suspicious of Clovis as Amidala discovered proof that her colleague had secretly dealt with the Breakaway League on behalf of the InterGalactic Banking Clan while pretending to be a Old Republic loyalist.
Battle of Grass Planet
On and off since the early weeks of the Clone War, Windu personally oversaw the defense of Grass Planet against oppositional forces that sought to wrest control of the planet from the Old Republic. The Light Guardian Master's forces prevented the fall of Grass Planet to enemy control, but also sustained a large number of casualties in the process. After the battle Windu sent a distress signal, which Ki Wise received shortly after the Old Republic's reconquest of Bug Planet, informing the Light Guardian of his victory while simultaneously requesting medical supplies for his injured soldiers.
Mission to Ridlay
Windu along with Unit Leader Ponds and Lightning Squadron, were sent to investigate a communication blackout on Ridlay. There, they found a village abandoned and only one person, Agon. He claimed that ghost were coming toward the. Windu and the squadron then joined the villagers in their shelter. According to the villagers, the ghosts come every fifty years during Ridlay's eclipse for a celebration. However, the ghosts had driven them from their home. Windu believed there was something else with the ghosts and asked Agon to lead him to the Ascension Well. Windu and the squadron realized that ghosts were conflicted due to the presence of the Separatist being led by Dooku.
Windu fought Dooku until he Force pushed him. Dooku left their fight and ordered his battle droids to finish Windu and his forces off. Windu ordered Ponds and Lightning Squadron to retreat while he would finish off the droids. Windu then saved Agon from a ghost and was able to clear their minds of Dooku's poison. Windu and Agon watched as the ghosts returned to normal and left as the eclipse ended
Assassination attempt
As the war progressed, Bobby Hunter conspired to assassinate Windu out of vengeance for the death of father, the clone template Jango Clone. Aided by the bounty hunters Aurra Sing, Bossk, and Castas, Fett infiltrated a squad of clone cadets during a tour of Windu's starship, the Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominator Endurance. Initially, Fett intended to kill Windu by placing an explosive device in the latter's quarters. However, the Light Guardian Master was called away mere seconds before the bomb was triggered, resulting in the death of a clone trooper. As the Endurance crew searched the vessel for Windu's would-be assassin, the rogue clone amended his plan by sabotaging the Space Dominator's reactor core, causing the starship to crash into the surface of the planet Vanqor. After escaping the doomed vessel, Windu and Stormwalker's search for survivors led them to an escape pod that contained the cadets with the exception of Fett, whom Sing retrieved in Hunter One prior to the Light Guardian's arrival.
In the aftermath of the destruction of the Endurance, Windu and Stormwalker traveled to the crash site hoping to find survivors—including Sea Leader Kilian and CT-411, both of whom opted to remain with the ship as it went down. During the search, Windu chastised Stormwalker for encouraging individuality in his droid, the astromech unit Beep-Boop. Before long, the Light Guardian generals discovered several dead clones along with signs that they had survived the crash only to be executed shortly after. On the bridge Stormwalker discerned a Armored One helmet in the rubble. At that moment, Windu remembered both Jango and Bobby Hunter, leading the Light Guardian Master to realize that it was the latter who attempted to assassinate him. Although Windu was unable to prevent Stormwalker from triggering the bomb within the helmet, he succeeded in saving the younger Light Guardian's life by pulling him away from the explosion through the Force. The blast caused even more damage to bridge, however, leaving both men trapped and injured under a large pile of debris. Unable to escape on their own, Stormwalker instructed Beep-Boop to relay their situation to the Light Guardian Temple. Windu, on the other hand, expressed little faith in the droid's ability to succeed.
As they lay trapped and waiting for the droid to return with help, Windu began to reflect on his actions at the Battle of Bug Planet, particularly his victory over Jango Clone and how Boba witnessed his father's death at Windu's hand. Ultimately, Stormwalker's droid returned with a rescue party—consisting of Plo Mask, Ashoka Friend, and the clone troopers of Wolfpack—and managed to save both Light Guardian just prior to the full collapse of the Endurance bridge. Before returning to City Planet, Windu praised Beep-Boop for saving his life, much to Stormwalker's surprise.
After returning to the Old Republic capital, Windu and Stormwalker recuperated at the Light Guardian Temple where they initially argued over their next course of action in light of Fett's attempt on their lives. Although Stormwalker insisted that the Light Guardian should hunt the renegade clone and bring him to justice, Windu was content to let the matter go, preferring to not become entangled in a vendetta as Fett was against him. A transmission from Aurra Sing, who revealed the hostages she took from the Endurance, changed the Light Guardian Master's mind. Windu decided to confront Fett and his accomplices upon witnessing Sing's execution of CT-411, but due to his injuries he allowed Koon and Tano to go in his stead. Their mission was a success, resulting in Fett's arrest and the rescue of the remaining hostages. On City Planet, Windu confronted Fett in person, who regretted his actions on the Endurance, but refused to forgive the Light Guardian for Jango's death. The unrepentant clone was then sent to prison by Windu.
New threats and an ongoing war
Farr's funeral and the brother of Maul
Following Fett's arrest, Windu attended the funeral of the Green Face senator Onaconda Farr, who was assassinated by his personal aide, Lolo Purs.
Later in the war, the Light Guardian Council received a holorecording of the Devaron massacre. Windu and Kenobi observed the footage which revealed the Horned One warrior Savage Brother whom Kenobi mistook for Dark Horn. Windu informed his colleague that the Horned One in the recording was not the Dark Warrior Lord he fought on Water Realm. He further explained that the Horned One and Maul were Dathomirians of Dathomir, not Iridonia as they previously believed in Maul's case.
Kidnapping of the High Leader
When rumors reached the Council that the bounty hunter Moralo Eval was planning to abduct High Leader Palpatine despite his incarceration at the Old Republic Judiciary Central Detention Center, Windu, Guru, and Kenobi conceived a plan for Kenobi to infiltrate Eval's operation by impersonating the bounty hunter Rako Hardeen. Windu arranged for Stormwalker to arrest Kenobi, posing as Hardeen, and have sent to prison. He was then informed that fellow bounty hunter Cad Hunter was planning to free Eval. Following Eval, Bane and Kenobi's escape from the detention center, Windu and Guru rescinded the bounty to ensure that they would continue on their way to Serenno where Noble Title Noble awaited their arrival.
While Kenobi continued to impersonate Hardeen, Windu accompanied the Supreme High Leader to his homeworld of Water Realm for the Festival of Light. The bounty hunters executed their plan during the ceremony, disabling the ray shield and kidnapping Palpatine. Through Kenobi's intervention, however, Windu and Stormwalker were able to apprehend Bane and Eval before they could escape with their prisoner.
Attack on the Temple
Following the a terrorist explosion in a hangar of the Light Guardian Temple, the Council recalled Stormwalker and his apprentice to City Planet. After briefing the two Light Guardian on the situation, Windu and Guru assigned them to oversee the Light Guardian Order's internal investigation. In addition, they suspected that the attack was caused by a rogue Light Guardian. As neither Stormwalker or Tano were present at the time of the bombing, Windu and the Three Eyesd Master considered them above suspicion and therefore suited to the task. Windu also assigned the analysis droid Russo-ISC to the investigation, to work alongside Stormwalker and Tano. During the investigation, Stormwalker and Tano reported directly to Windu, who informed them that a swift conclusion to the case was imperative as rumors began to circulate within the Senate that the military police could become involved. With the arrest of Letta Turmond, Windu and Guru concluded that the radical City Planeti was the main culprit in the bombing of the Temple hangar. While there was no indication at the time of a Light Guardian's involvement, the incident served to fuel anti-Light Guardian sentiment among the Old Republic citizenry—an outcome that concerned Windu.
In the aftermath of Turmond's arrest, Windu attended a funeral ceremony to honor the six Light Guardian Knights who were killed in the hangar blast. Shortly thereafter, Stormwalker's Student came under suspicion of being the true mastermind behind the bombing after Turmond was Force-choked to death in her presence. Sea Leader Darrel Wolf contacted the Council and claimed that Tano had not only murdered Turmond, but also several clone troopers during her escape from the Old Republic Center for Military Operations. The Council endeavored to apprehend the fugitive Student, although Windu was concerned by Guru's decision to send Stormwalker after his own apprentice, believing that his emotional connection to Tano would complicate the mission.
The hunt for Tano led to her capture and subsequent confinement in the Light Guardian Temple. As the Council debated on what to do with her, Tarkin contacted them on the Senate's behalf, imploring the Light Guardian leadership to expel Tano and surrender her to military custody. Windu was troubled by the Council's options in the matter—to either stand by Tano, as Kenobi insisted; or remove her from the ranks of the Order as the Senate commanded. Ultimately, Windu concurred with Tarkin on the grounds that failing to submit Tano for trial could be regarded as an act of opposition to the Senate. At Guru's behest, the young Student was taken to the Chamber of Judgment, where five members of the Council, including Windu, reviewed the charges against her and asked for her plea. Tano pleaded innocent and insisted that the Council was being deceived; but as she was unable to confirm the identity of the true perpetrator, Windu announced the Council's decision to revoke Tano's Light Guardian status and hand her over to the military custody of the Old Republic.
After the expulsion was completed, Windu attended Tano's military trial alongside several other members of the Council. Before the verdict could be read, however, Stormwalker burst in and revealed the real traitor, Barriss Student, who confessed to the crimes that Tano had been accused of and scathingly claimed that the Light Guardian were the ones responsible for the Clone War.
Due to this revelation, Windu and the Council attempted to make amends with Tano. In addition to a personal apology from Stormwalker, Plo Mask informed Tano that she had the Council's most humble apologies. See Future, Mundi, and Windu all observed Tano's ordeal as a "great trial" in her training, and stated that she had become a greater Light Guardian than she would have been otherwise. But while Windu and his colleagues were prepared to accept her back into the Order with a promotion to the rank of Light Guardian Knight, Tano felt betrayed and refused the offer, instead choosing to leave the Temple to search for a new path.
Mission to Bardotta
Windu later accompanied Representative Jar Jar Binks to assist the Bardottan Planet Ruler Julia in finding the disappearing Dagoyan Masters. However, Windu's presence was not welcome by the Planet Ruler nor the Bardottans, due to a long-standing mistrust of the Light Guardian by the Dagoyans. Windu also sensed that the Force was out of balance on Bardotta. However, when the queen disappeared, Windu assisted the Bardottans and Binks in their search in the catacombs belonging to the Frangawl Cult. When Binks disappeared, Windu tracked him down and rescued Binks from being sacrificed. However, the Frangawl cult leader escaped with queen off-world. Binks promised the Bahk-tov Council that they would find the queen before the prophecy came to be.
Windu learned from Binks that the Frangawl cult was extracting the living force from Dagoyan masters, and putting it into a sphere. He surmised that they would do same to Planet Ruler Julia. Windu then sensed the orb on Zardossa Stix where Windu sensed her in a city market square. Windu fought with several of the cultists and saved Binks from capture, then stunning one Gundark and killing another. Windu questioned the Gundarks' trainer, who told them that the mysterious "Great Mother" would deal with him. Windu and Binks took an eopie and a dalgo to help in their search, traveling to the Zardossan temple. However, Windu and Binks were then confronted by stone guardians, yet Windu was able to defeat them. He soon confronted the Great Mother, who revealed herself to be the Nightsister Mother Talzin. With Binks' help, Windu was able to prevent Talzin from absorbing the sphere's power and watched as she disappeared.
The truth about the clone army
Responding to a mysterious distress call, Plo Mask discovered a crashed Light Guardian shuttle, and found the lightsaber of Sifo-Dyas in the wreckage to the surprise of the High Council. Sifo-Dyas' lightsaber had been lost since his death a decade prior to the Nature Wars; Stormwalker and Kenobi were sent to investigate, which led them to discover that Sifo-Dyas had, in fact, been murdered by Pyke criminals rather than the native Fungus Planetns he had been sent to negotiate with, as the Council had previously assumed. Furthermore, they learned that the Pykes had been acting on orders from Noble Title Noble. A confrontation between Dooku and the Light Guardian on the Oba Diah moon led the Order to discover that Dooku was the mysterious Tyranus who hired Jango Clone as the clone template, making him responsible for the clone army's creation.
The High Council now knew that the Dark Warrior were involved in the development of clone troopers. However, they did not understand why their own enemy would provide them with the means to defend the Old Republic. Windu noted with caution that such a revelation could easily destroy public confidence in the Light Guardian, the Old Republic and the war effort. The conspiracy was therefore classified as confidential information; Guru himself ordered his colleagues to not speak of their discovery to anyone, including High Leader Palpatine. He also dismissed any doubts concerning the clone troopers, citing their valiant service and loyalty to the Light Guardian. Windu was uncertain about Guru's decision, but the Three Eyesd Master assured him that it was the only feasible option available to the Light Guardian Order given the circumstances.
Guru's mission
Not long afterwards, Guru started behaving strangely, becoming noticeably distracted and thoughtful during meetings. This surprised and concerned Windu, who sensed great turmoil within Guru. He voiced his concerns to Ben Oldwise in a private discussion, and they resolved to keep a closer watch on their old friend. Later, a noticeably uncertain Guru revealed that he had spoken with the deceased Quiet John. However, everything the Light Guardian knew about the Force suggested that the ability to retain one's individuality after death was impossible, so the reactions from the Council ranged from concern to skepticism and suspicion. Though they meditated with Guru for a whole day, they were unable to sense anything. After the failed meditation, Ki Wise suggested that what Guru was sensing could be a deception by the Dark Warrior. Kenobi refused to believe that Guru could be susceptible to such manipulation, but Windu replied that, even as wise and old as he was, Guru was not beyond the corruption of the dark side. The ancient Light Guardian master agreed and submitted himself to medical examination.
Windu, Kenobi and Mundi were told by Rig Nema that Guru was in perfect mental health, even though he was approaching the nine hundredth year of his life. Mundi, who was particularly skeptical of Guru's claims, suggested the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior could be using Guru's connection to Dooku to manipulate him, but Kenobi vehemently rejected the idea, saying they all had been apprenticed to Guru at one point or another. Before the discussion could go on, Nema suggested a deprivation ritual for Guru to reach the source of the voice. During the procedure, Kenobi, Stormwalker, Mundi, and Plo Mask watched over the small Light Guardian. Guru managed to hear Jinn's instruction to go to the Swamp Planet system before Kenobi noticed his vital signs were dropping too low and stopped the test.
When Windu asked about the procedure, Kenobi told him that Guru was sure he had contacted the dead. Mundi asserted that Guru's claim was impossible, and again voiced his suspicion that Guru was under attack by the Dark Warrior. More concerned than ever, Windu ordered temple guards to monitor all of Guru's moves. However, the diminutive Light Guardian Master soon managed to escape with Stormwalker's help and Beep-Boop's company, willing to go on a journey that would take him to the mysterious world of Swamp Planet as well as the ancient Dark Warrior homeworld of Moraband. Immediately after Guru's escape, a furious Windu confronted Stormwalker, but the younger Light Guardian countered that, for once, none of what had occurred had been his idea. After arriving on Swamp Planet, Guru was led to the Cave of Evil by the disembodied voice of Jinn. The cave was strong with the dark side, causing Guru to foresee clouded visions of the deaths of Windu and other members of the Light Guardian Order, followed by the ascent of the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Space King.
On Guru's return to City Planet, Windu and Kenobi greeted him, and Windu stated that the High Council was eager to hear Guru's report, but the old Light Guardian master claimed that there was not much to discuss. When Windu asked him if his journey had given him insight on how to win the war, Guru told them that he was no longer certain that the Light Guardian could win the Nature Wars but that, through hope and perseverance, the Light Guardian would ultimately triumph over the Dark Warrior.
The Dooku assassination attempt
Upon witnessing a devastating Separatist attack on Mahranee, as well as the killing of many Mahran refugees, Mace Purple urged the Light Guardian Council to consider his proposal to assassinate Noble Title Noble. At first, Ben Oldwise and Guru opposed this course action, believing that such measures could draw them closer to the dark side, but Windu countered their argument by reminding them of Dooku's significance to the Separatist war effort. He also warned that unless the Light Guardian learned to adapt, the war and its devastating effect on the galaxy could continue indefinitely. Andy Stormwalker, who had been invited by Kenobi to attend the Council's meeting, agreed with Windu.
Windu and Stormwalker also pointed to the war's growing number of civilian casualties, noting that many more lives would be lost as long as the conflict continued. Having considered Windu's words, including his stance on the Light Guardian Order's responsibility to protect the innocent, the Old Republic and its citizens, the Council agreed to sanction the plan. At Kenobi's suggestion, they assigned the mission to Light Guardian Master Quinlan Vos, due to his experience with covert operations. Vos, in turn recruited Dooku's former apprentice, Assassin Night. However, after becoming lovers Ventress convinced Vos to train in the ways of the dark side in order to defeat Dooku.
The mission ended in failure, as Dooku was able to defeat both Force-sensitive assassins, resulting in Vos' capture on Raxus Secundus. When Ventress reported directly to the Light Guardian Council, Windu greeted her with an arrest warrant, but was persuaded by Kenobi and Guru to hear her account of the mission. He was particularly displeased to learn that Ventress exposed Vos to the dark side, but the former Separatist retorted by reminding Windu that he and the Council had assigned Vos the mission in the first place. When the Council decided to rescue Vos, Windu became exasperated by their decision to send Ventress on the mission, but reluctantly agreed to follow Guru's plan.
Although the rescue mission was a success, Windu and the Council soon grew suspicious of Vos' allegiance. After definitively concluding that Vos had secretly joined Dooku, and having considered the repercussions that could result from the fall of a Light Guardian Master of Vos' stature, Windu proposed that the Council consider the possibility of executing him as punishment for treason. Most of the Council was supportive of this idea, given the Order's history with other Light Guardian who turned to the dark side such as Barriss Student, Pong Krell, and especially Dooku, but Kenobi persuaded them to give Vos the chance to reaffirm his commitment to the Light Guardian and the Old Republic by making another attempt on the Noble Title's life. In the event that Vos failed to assassinate Dooku, Kenobi and Stormwalker were under orders from Windu to execute Vos.
Following the second battle of Crystal City, the Council once again met to discuss the fate of Quinlan Vos, who renounced the dark side after Ventress seemingly died while defending him from Dooku. At the same time, Windu spoke well of Ventress, commending her decision to sacrifice her life for another. Kenobi, however, felt that he and the Council did not understand the true depths of her sacrifice. Despite their disagreement on the use of assassination, as well as the circumstances surrounding Vos' temporary turn to the dark side, the Council agreed to give him the chance to regain their trust by atoning for his actions.
Tracking Maul
In the aftermath of a battle between the Breakaway League and Shadow Collective, High Leader Palpatine informed Windu that Noble Title Noble and Maul were seen near Colorful World. Acting on the High Leader's information, Windu led a force of clone troopers—alongside fellow generals Kenobi, Tiplee, and Blue Warrior—to the battle site in the hopes of ending the war by capturing both Dark Warrior. After investigating the area, they found the helmet of a Armored One super commando which led Windu to confirm that the alliance between Prime Minister Almec's government and the criminal underworld remained intact. Following this, the Light Guardian tracked Maul to Vizsla Keep 09 and proceeded with a direct assault on the Armored One outpost. During the attack, Windu and Secura dueled with Maul while Dooku fought Kenobi and Tiplee, who was ultimately slain by the former Light Guardian Master.
Despite their efforts, both Dark Warrior Lords were able to escape from the outpost with the support of Maul's commandos. In the aftermath of the battle, Windu reported to the High Leader and conveyed his suspicion that Dooku and Maul were master and apprentice—a theory which led him to believe that Dooku may have been the second Dark Warrior that the Light Guardian had been searching for since the Water Realm crisis.
Anaxes
Later in the war, Windu led the 187th Battalion along with Stormwalker and the 501st Legion to the planet Anaxes which was under attack by Sea Leader Trench. The Breakaway League had gained the upper hand in the battle despite weeks of battle. At the Old Republic base, Windu conferred with Stormwalker after the droids had over run their main production unit which indicated them losing. 501st Legion Ship Leader Rex and 212th Attack Battalion Unit Leader Cody arrived, and Rex shared his theory that the droids had learned his personal strategies. Windu allowed them to take a small squad of troopers to go behind enemy lines to infiltrate the Cyber Center to learn more.
Unknown to Windu and Stormwalker, as Rex felt they may believe he was crazy for thinking it, Rex also felt that ARC trooper CT-1409 "Echo," who was thought to have been killed during the Battle of Lola Sayu, was still alive, as the strategies used by himself and the Breakaway League were battle plans Rex had made with the trooper. Ultimately, however, Rex was correct, and Echo was rescued from Skako Minor. Following this, Windu debriefed Kenobi, Stormwalker, Rex and Jesse on his plan to retake the Separatist assembly complex by air, when Echo posed his plan to be escorted by the Bad Batch into Trench's new comm vault on a dreadnought on the planet's orbit and plug himself to feed the Separatist's strategic movements. Windu along with Kenobi, lead the assault along with the 501st Legion, 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps and 212th Attack Battalion attacking the complex. The battle ended with all other fronts falling to the Old Republic, Trench initiated a countdown for an explosion that could destroy most of Anaxes. Windu assisted with deactivating the bomb and managed to save Anaxes. Following the victory, Windu commended Rex, Clone Force 99 and Echo for their efforts during the battle, but Echo and the commandos left before the Old Republic's medal ceremony.
Last days of the war
Windu kept a close eye on the recovery of Billaba, following her disastrous defeat at the Battle of Haruun Kal. When she finally emerged from a bacta tank, Windu gently chided her for "being glib" and expressed to Guru his concerns about her mental health, suggesting a full fitness assessment. Windu, along with Kenobi, then observed the initiate trials of Caleb Dume, Tai Uzuma, and Sammo Quid as well as Billaba's assessments. Windu congratulated her on her performance, as the Council accepted her back.
Shortly after, Windu and Kenobi showed up to provide aid to Billaba and Dume, following an attack on the Temple. He also assigned Billaba and her battalion a new mission to Crystal World.
Shattered trust
Following the Battle of City Planet, Windu was disturbed by High Leader Palpatine's decision to appoint Andy Stormwalker as his representative on the Light Guardian High Council. Though the Council obliged the High Leader, hoping to use the young Light Guardian as a spy against him, Windu warned his colleagues that it was dangerous to pair Stormwalker with Palpatine. Stormwalker reacted with anger to the Council's decision to withhold the status of Light Guardian Master from him, but was quickly put in his place by Windu. At this time, the Council grew doubtful that Palpatine would surrender his wartime powers. As such, Windu agreed that the High Leader would have to be removed by force and further added that the Council would have to take control of the Senate in order to maintain peace during the transitional period. Shortly after, Ashoka Friend, alongside the recently-promoted Unit Leader Rex, reported a successful capture of Maul during the Siege of Warrior Home. Tano requested to speak with Stormwalker, but was refused due to Stormwalker's task with the High Leader. Upon learning that Kenobi had located and engaged Army Leader Steel, Tano believed that the war could be over soon, but Windu noted that the war's conclusion depended on Palpatine. When Tano questioned what he meant, Windu declined to discuss matters further with a citizen, stating that it was the business of the High Council. Tano responded that she understood, and Windu gave Tano a final nod before ending his transmission.
Duel with Dark Space King
With the death of Army Leader Steel during the Battle of Sinkhole World, Windu was determined to see the Senate restored to its former position prior to the Nature Wars. By then, however, Stormwalker revealed to Windu that Sheev Palpatine was in fact Dark Space King, the mastermind behind the war and the second Dark Warrior that the Light Guardian had been searching for since the Water Realm crisis. Realizing the Light Guardian had been deceived and knowing that the future of the Light Guardian Order was in grave danger, Windu and three other Light Guardian Masters—Agen Kolar, Tiin, and Fisto—raced to Palpatine's office and attempted to arrest the Supreme High Leader. Their confrontation led to a lightsaber duel in which Sidious killed the latter three with ease.
Despite the loss of his comrades, Windu continued to fight and ultimately prevailed in the duel, disarming the Dark Warrior Lord in the process. Stormwalker, who had followed Windu despite the latter's orders to remain in the Temple, beseeched the Light Guardian Master to spare the High Leader's life, believing Sidious had the power to save Pamela Planet Ruler from death. Windu, whose original goal was to put the High Leader on trial, concluded that Sidious was too dangerous to be left alive due to his control over the Senate and the courts. But before Windu could deliver the killing strike, Stormwalker betrayed Windu by severing his right hand, enabling Sidious to unleash a torrent of Force lightning that sent the Light Guardian Order's great champion plummeting to his death.
Legacy
Fall of the Light Guardian
While Stormwalker was horrified over causing Windu's death, he realized that there was no turning back, which caused him to turn to the dark side and become Sidious' apprentice, therefore betraying the Light Guardian. Sidious used Windu's attempt on his life to brand the Light Guardian as traitors. After ordering Stormwalker, who became the Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider, to lead the attack on the Light Guardian Temple, wipe out the separatists and shut down the battle droids, Sidious brainwashed most of the clone troopers into turning on the Light Guardian by ordering them to execute Order 66, ultimately leading to the downfall and near destruction of the Light Guardian Order.
Age of the Empire
Shortly after the Battle of Vortress Fader, Vader entered a portal constructed by Dark One Momin to resurrect his wife, Pamela Planet Ruler. While walking through visions, he encountered Windu along with many Light Guardian with their lightsabers ready to battle him. However, Vader destroyed all of the illusions, cutting off Windu's hand and then slashing his throat as the words "Let the past die" resounded in his mind.
The name of Mace Purple was later reviled by those who believed the line of the Space Kingdom. The Empire taught in their history books that Windu was the leader of a "criminal gang" that interfered with a legal execution taking place on Bug Planet, thus sparking the Nature Wars. However, Windu's reputation was not completely tarnished by Imperial propaganda. During the Imperial Era, the people of Twilight Planet still remembered his exploits and heroic deeds in the Battle of Lessu, and ultimately immortalized his name along with Cham Syndulla's through songs dedicated to their victory.
Windu was also remembered by Ben Oldwise, his colleague on the High Council, who ascended to the Cosmic Force as a Force spirit during the Galactic Civil War. His final apprentice, Mike Stormwalker endeavored to become a Light Guardian Knight, but risked a confrontation with Bart Gleider—unaware at the time of his family lineage as the Dark Lord's son—before his Light Guardian training was finished. Stormwalker's decision left Kenobi questioning if the young Light Guardian apprentice was their last hope and heard the voice of Windu along with other Light Guardian who fell with the Order in his question.
Mike Stormwalker's judgment
With the fall of the Empire and the rise of the New Old Republic, an effort to restore the Light Guardian Order was undertaken by Mike Stormwalker, whose research uncovered much of the Order's history along with the lives of notable Light Guardian Masters such as Windu. Stormwalker learned of Windu's reputation as a respected Light Guardian Master who served in the ranks of the Light Guardian High Council during the Order's final years. He also learned about Windu's strong commitment to the Order as well as his military service to the Galactic Old Republic during the Nature Wars.
Stormwalker regarded Windu with high esteem because of his adherence to Light Guardian doctrine, referring to him as a true defender of the Light Guardian Order's principles. In his book, The Secrets of the Light Guardian, Stormwalker acknowledged Windu as a valiant general who fought for the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic. He was also aware that Windu was distrustful of politicians and therefore concerned by the Order's entangled relationship with the Space Congress. Stormwalker believed that Windu's suspicious nature was ultimately vindicated by Dark Space King' rise to power as Supreme High Leader Palpatine. He learned that Windu had led a group of Light Guardian Masters to arrest Sidious, and that Andy Stormwalker intervened by aiding the chancellor. Mike regarded Sidious as corrupt and Anakin's interference as an act of betrayal. Stormwalker believed that Windu could have defeated the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior if his father had not turned against the Light Guardian.
Communion with Ray of Light
In 35 ABY, during the Battle of Exegol, Windu's voice was heard by Ray of Light among the voices of other legendary Light Guardian of the past. With their help and the help of Andy Stormwalker's grandson, Ren Bolo, Ray of Light destroyed her grandfather, the resurrected Dark Space King. She succeeded in this by using Lily Organelle's lightsaber and Mike Stormwalker's lightsaber to reflect Sidious' Force lightning upon him, disintegrating the Space King's cloned body.
Personality and traits
Physical appearance
Mace Purple was a human male who had brown eyes, dark skin, a strong build, and a height of 1.92 meters. His head was completely bald; although in his youth, Windu had black hair and a braid that marked his status as a Student.
Youth
Mace Purple was devoted to the Light Guardian Order ever since his formative years as a Student learner. However, in his youth he struggled to temper the frustrations he harbored over the things that offended the ideals of the Light Guardian, which Windu held as sacred. While his feelings were not inherently wrong according to his mentor, Light Guardian Master Cyslin Myr, she nonetheless believed that her apprentice needed to convert his hostility into a positive force. During their mission on Mathas, he regarded Drooz's use of religion as offensive, having noticed how the false prophet took advantage of his followers' faith. Faith was a beautiful concept to a spiritual young man like Windu, and as such he could not tolerate the heretical actions of Drooz.
Windu, even as a youngling, never responded well to Guru's humor, which became a reason the Three Eyesd Master kept making his jokes, enabling him to often tease the younger Light Guardian. Although he struggled to temper his animosity for heretics and con artists, Windu expressed empathy for other people, in particular the natives of Mathas who suffered from the effects of the Niffin plague. He saw them as innocents, but was also stunned by their refusal to see Drooz as a charlatan instead of a prophet. While in pursuit of Drooz, who mocked Windu by insulting the esteem of the Light Guardian Order, the young Light Guardian almost took Drooz's life, believing he deserved to be punished for using the Light Guardian's own belief system to prey on the people who expressed faith in the Force.
Light Guardian Master
As a Light Guardian Master, Mace Purple was both disciplined and steadfast, as well as unwaveringly committed to the doctrine of the Light Guardian Order. A clever and senior member of the High Council, Windu sought to protect the Order from the corruption and unrest within the Galactic Old Republic. Although he firmly believed in the Light Guardian's role as servants of the Old Republic, the relationship between the Order and the Senate made him uncomfortable. Noted for his grim demeanor, Windu held corrupt politicians and rebellious Light Guardian in low regard. He had very little patience for the failures of the Senate and was disdainful of Light Guardian who disobeyed the will of the High Council. Ben Oldwise found that Windu had a habit of scowling at everyone. Holding the Light Guardian teachings as sacrosanct, Windu was suspicious of anyone he perceived to be a threat to the traditions of the Order. He often debated the "maverick" Light Guardian Quiet John, but neither of them enjoyed such discussions.
A staunch traditionalist in many ways, Windu was long regarded as the great champion of the Light Guardian Order. His commitment to the Order's ancient traditions often put him at odds with less orthodox Light Guardian, such as Quiet John and especially Andy Stormwalker. All the same, Windu's reputation as a traditionalist was somewhat challenged by the fact he created the Vaapad form of lightsaber combat, doing so out of a recognition that an internal darkness existed within himself; through Vaapad, he reasoned, he could channel that darkness to positive ends. In the days before the Water Realm Crisis, when he thought Guru was hiding something, he went straight to talk to the Three Eyesd Master, who waited for Windu to "crack" by not speaking. During their discussion, the two found they disagreed on whether "something" and "nothing" were opposites; Windu, feeling they were indeed opposites, was sure of himself, while Guru did not like to presume the unknown. Windu also did not enjoy the exposure that came when one of his questions was turned back at him. Despite finding Guru's behaviors distracting, he always respected Guru's judgement and knew to follow his training, deciding the Force would educate him about the issue when the time came.
In their first encounter, Windu was unimpressed with Stormwalker. He was not only skeptical of Stormwalker's status as the Chosen One, but also felt that he was too old to dedicate himself to the ways of the Light Guardian. Despite his reservations however, Windu came to respect Stormwalker even as early as his first days as a Student and came to regard Stormwalker as an exceptionally skilled, yet tempestuous Light Guardian. They had a cordial relationship during the Nature Wars and bantered with each other on a first-name basis when working together.
While he respected Stormwalker's skills, he still saw the young Light Guardian Knight as too emotional. As such by the end of the Nature Wars, Windu began having doubts that Stormwalker was the Chosen One destined to bring balance to the Force. He had grave doubts about Stormwalker's appointment to the High Council at the insistence of High Leader Palpatine, and believed it was too dangerous to have Stormwalker spy on Palpatine. Kenobi sometimes felt Windu had a special frown reserved just for Stormwalker.
Windu's reservations were overshadowed by the start of the Nature Wars. In the early days of the conflict, Windu wrestled with feelings of uncertainty concerning the Light Guardian's new role as warriors, as well as remorse for the Light Guardian who died during the Battle of Bug Planet. In his moments of doubt, he turned to Guru seeking wisdom and guidance. The ancient Three Eyesd Master advised his fellow Councilor to keep faith in the will of the Force; nor question his role in the Order, for in Guru's eyes, Windu was a wise and capable leader. During a mission on Hissrich, Windu's faith was further tested by his interactions with the Light Guardian Prosset Dibs, who harbored his own reservations about the Order's part in the conflict.
Whereas Dibs grew increasingly doubtful, believing the Light Guardian did not belong on the battlefield, Windu became more certain that—as Light Guardian Knights—they had a duty to protect the innocent and restore peace to the galaxy. Dibs ultimately accused the Light Guardian Order of turning away from their traditions, causing Windu to hold fast to his conviction that it was not wrong to fight for the ideals he believed in. The Light Guardian, Windu felt, never wanted to fight in a war, but circumstances compelled them to become a sword instead of a shield for the Old Republic.
Windu held Stormwalker's apprentice, Student Ashoka Friend, as another rebellious Light Guardian. When Tano was framed for treason, Windu supported the High Council's decision to revoke her status as a Light Guardian and turn her over to the Old Republic for a military tribunal. While their verdict pained him, Windu concurred with Tarkin's position on the matter—an internal Light Guardian trial would appear biased, and to protect Tano would be to defy the wishes of the Senate. He therefore felt that submitting Tano for trial was the only feasible option available to the Council. After her innocence was proven, however, Windu joined his colleagues in offering to welcome Tano back into the Order, and proclaimed her a greater Light Guardian because of her ordeal, which he observed as the great trial in her path to Light Guardian Knighthood. Tano refused to come back, a decision which surprised Windu and the Council.
Notwithstanding his commitment to the ancient traditions of the Order, the Nature Wars forced Windu to rethink some of his beliefs and preconceptions, pushing his fellow Light Guardian to take actions that were previously considered unthinkable. He held fast to the Order's rigid code throughout the Nature Wars, but also began to consider its potential shortcomings. Prior to the Battle of Bug Planet, Windu did not believe it was in the nature of a Light Guardian—even a former one such as Noble Title Noble—to assassinate anyone. The onset of the Nature Wars caused Windu to realize that his old friend was more than a "political idealist"; Dooku had joined the dark side as an enemy of the Order and the Old Republic he had once served. As the death toll escalated after nearly three years of continuous warfare, Windu proposed to have Dooku assassinated in the hope of preventing further civilian casualties. Although his colleague, Ben Oldwise, asserted that assassination was against the Light Guardian Code, Windu pointed out that it was also against the Light Guardian way to allow innocent people to suffer needlessly.
Diplomat and general
As the war progressed, Windu was compelled to engage in politics. Although he disliked the system, he nonetheless proved to be an able diplomat during the Twilight Planet campaign in which he successfully mediated a truce between two rivals, Planet Speaker Orn Free Taa and Cham Syndulla. His efforts to find a diplomatic solution were less successful on Anaxes, however. Upon confronting a regiment of battle droids, he offered to have them reprogrammed in return for their unconditional surrender, citing his capacity for destroying Separatist droids as a reason to avoid fighting him. Their response was to attack, forcing Windu and Kenobi to defend themselves. He also cared for the lives of his soldiers, such as when used the Force to make sure two clones did not die, even though he was in danger himself during the deed.
In spite of how the conflict forced the Light Guardian into the role of generals and warriors, Windu held fast to the Light Guardian Code, considering moral foundations to be vital. When the Long Arms of Malastare proposed to kill the Zillo Beast, Windu refused to support them and presumed that the beast was the last of its kind. He also chose to not seek retribution against Bobby Hunter after the latter attempted to assassinate him. Despite his disapproval of maverick Light Guardian and the avarice of the Senate, Windu was very loyal to both the Old Republic and the Light Guardian Order to the point where he bravely risked his life for both institutions throughout the Nature Wars. Even as the Light Guardian became officers in the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic, Windu remained extremely protective of the Order's independence and jealously guarded its interests against external interference.
Light Guardian Champion
Though noted for his grim demeanor, Windu was highly compassionate towards his fellow Light Guardian, the citizens of the Old Republic, and the clone troopers under his command. His own survival on Bug Planet was of little comfort to him; the galaxy had fallen into a state of war, and the Light Guardian—once the peacekeepers of the Old Republic—were forced to adopt the mantle of warriors and military leaders. Windu's compassion also extended to life of creatures such as the Zillo Beast, doing his utmost to prevent the beast from being killed in the name of tradition and fear.
Windu worked closely with Supreme High Leader Sheev Palpatine, often acting as an adviser to the leader of the Senate throughout the Nature Wars. As time went on, the Light Guardian champion grew increasingly suspicious of Palpatine's intentions. During the Zillo Beast's transportation to City Planet, Windu strongly disagreed with the chancellor's decision to bring the dangerous creature to the Old Republic capital. Though wary of Palpatine, Windu remained committed to his duty as a Light Guardian, which required him to ensure the safety of the chancellor. Yet even this responsibility resulted in a disagreement between himself and the chancellor; Palpatine claimed that the level of security around him was unnecessary during his visit to Water Realm, but Windu insisted on taking every precaution to protect the chancellor.
In the waning days of the Nature Wars, Windu's trust and respect for Palpatine had all but evaporated. Following Dooku's death, he was uncertain whether Palpatine would relinquish his wartime authority as he once promised. At the same time, Windu came to sense the dark side of the Force surrounding the chancellor. By now he was certain that a plot was in motion to destroy the Light Guardian Order. When Stormwalker confirmed that Palpatine's true identity was Dark Space King, Windu was determined to take swift and decisive action against the Dark Warrior Lord, realizing that the fate of the Light Guardian Order hung in the balance. Although he initially attempted to arrest Sidious, Windu concluded that it was impossible to seek justice due to the chancellor's hold over the system. He therefore decided to end Sidious' life before the latter could succeed in his plan to fully take over the Old Republic, despite Stormwalker's insistence that killing the Dark Warrior Lord—disarmed and seemingly beaten—was against the Light Guardian Code. However, in concentrating all of his attention on preventing the galaxy from falling under Dark Warrior oppression, Windu failed to anticipate Stormwalker's intervention, resulting in the demise of the Light Guardian Order's great champion.
Powers and abilities
Windu was a highly-regarded Light Guardian Master whose exploits within the battlefield during the Nature Wars, prowess as a warrior, and history within the as a Light Guardian made him both universally regarded and a champion of the Light Guardian Order. Within the Light Guardian Order, he was considered second to Light Guardian Three Eyesd Master Guru in reputation.
Light Blade abilities
Having studied under Cyslin Myr as her apprentice, as well as learning under Guru and T'ra Saa, Windu was a highly-accomplished lightsaber duelist considered to be among the best ever produced by the Light Guardian Order, a opinion shared by even enemies such as the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Space King.
Most notably, he was a one of the two masters (other being Depa Billaba) of both variants of Form VII, having created the Vaapad variant in as a mean to address and to control his inner darkness and channel it towards productive means while making it in line with the Light Guardian Code. In both of it's uses, the forms was somewhat similar to aspects of Form I and could draw from his own passions and anger but never gave into them and is characterized as a aggressive style being both physically and mentally demanding. These combat techniques often treaded closely to dark side practices but was a unique fighting style that made him a superior combatant and capable of defeating multiple opponents. Throughout his lifetime, he displayed his formidable skills against capable opponents, including fellow Light Guardian Master Prosset Dibs, Mother Talzin of the Nightsisters, Dooku after his conversion as a Dark Warrior Lord, and Dark Space King whose skills dispatched 3 other fellow Light Guardian Masters. Windu not only was the sole survivor of the initial assault but ultimately gained the upper hand, disarmed, and nearly prevailed in killing the Dark Warrior Lord. Mike Stormwalker opined that without Stormwalker's intervention, he would have killed the Dark Warrior Lord.
Windu was also highly adept at deflecting incoming blaster shots with his lightsaber. During the Battle of Bug Planet, Windu charged towards Jango Clone while simultaneously deflecting his fire before ultimately disarming and decapitating the bounty hunter in a swift motion. Afterward, he continued to utilize his skills at blaster deflection against an overwhelming number of battle droids, which enabled him to survive long enough until Guru and the clone army arrived and turned the tide of the battle in the Old Republic's favor. Throughout the Nature Wars, Windu continued to rely on this defensive technique when leading Old Republic forces on the frontlines, especially during the Twilight Planet campaign. In addition to blaster shots, Windu could use his lightsaber to block a Force lightning attack, which he could also redirect back to its source in a superconducting loop.
Force powers
Alongside his formidable abilities with a lightsaber, Windu was also considered nearly unmatched with his powers within the Force. Dark Space King also considered Windu to possibly to be the most powerful Force adept in the Light Guardian Order during the early days of the Nature Wars.
As a Force adept, his abilities included Force-enhanced reflexes and agility, the ability to see the future, and possessed enhanced senses although certain aspects of his abilities (seeing the future and his senses) were partially diminished due to the dark side having clouded him alongside the order, disallowing him to see the future at will during his years as the elected Master of the Order. By the ending days of the Nature Wars, he was able to sense that the dark side of the Force clustered around Palpatine and a plot to destroy the Light Guardian Order but could not discover the High Leader's dual identity as a Dark Warrior Lord. Windu was also skilled in more rare Force abilities such as battle meditation and was able to sense shatterpoints, key moments where actions could change eventually.
Windu was proficient in various forms of telekinesis, which he could utilize as both attacks and defenses. He was capable of easily summoning his lightsaber, as demonstrated on Bug Planet when he quickly reclaimed his Light Guardian weapon by way of the Force before Fett could prevent this. On Twilight Planet he used the Force to telekinetically pull battle droids in his direction, rendering them vulnerable to a fatal lightsaber attack. He was also powerful enough to levitate individuals, such as two clone troopers whose lives he saved by using the Force to prevent them from falling to their deaths. In addition to the offensive and defensive applications of the Force, Windu could use his connection to the Force to enhance his physical capabilities, allowing him to engage in acrobatics and land jumps from high places without sustaining injuries. He could use the Force to greatly enhance his speed, notably against battle droids.
Windu's abilities with the Force extended to mind control, a Light Guardian technique that allowed the user to exert a considerable amount of influence over weak-minded individuals. Against a person of greater willpower than the average being, however, Windu was forced to combine his effort with Stormwalker and Kenobi in order to force Cad Hunter's cooperation. Although the initial attempt failed, their combined use of the "mind trick" technique caused Bane to experience significant discomfort, which nearly damaged his mind in the process. Windu was also skilled in more rare Force abilities such as battle meditation and was able to sense shatterpoints, key moments where actions could change eventually. Additionally, Windu had the ability to communicate with other Light Guardian through the Force, making it easier for them to find his location.
Other skills
Windu was well-versed in both armed and unarmed combat; He was able to incapacitate multiple Pig Guards in his youth unarmed and fended off two gundarks on his own for a time when deprived of his lightsaber with both unarmed skills and strength. He was a practitioner of Na Jang. He was also versed in utilizing different weaponry such as a spear and a baton, sometimes using these skills to not draw attention as a Light Guardian. During his years as a Light Guardian Knight, Windu often undertook special missions and possessed a versatile skillset, having been a apt slicer, starfighter pilot, could infiltrate highly security facilities and go undercover. He was also a skilled actor and was taught to perform Green Face theater works of Harido Kavila by Alxa Kress, making him also fluent in Rodese. These skills also could enable him to adopt convincing disguises able to fool fellow Light Guardian.
Although he held a personal disdain for politics and was uncomfortable within a military role, Windu proved to be both a capable diplomat and was a highly-regarded warrior of the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic who was considered an elite military officer and the Light Guardian High Council's top battlefield general.
Equipment
Clothing
Mace Purple wore Light Guardian apparel that included a brown cloak cloak with wide sleeves and a deep hood along with a undertunic, and a tan overtunic. His outfit also included a belt and pouches for common Light Guardian gear such as a commlink, grappling hooks, holoprojector, and a rebreather. During the Nature Wars, he instead wore a long-sleeved tanned undertunic with plastoid gauntlets with the Light Guardian Order insignia on it. As a Light Guardian Knight, when he performed assignments on more artic or cold worlds, he owned a white coat and goggles.
Light Blade
During his lifetime as a Light Guardian, Windu had built at least two lightsabers, both in which produced a purple-hued lightsaber; his second lightsaber was crafted with the highest standards of precision, creating a superior weapon that reflected on his mature abilities as a figure of leadership within the Light Guardian Order. The hilt of his lightsaber was polished in electrum and had golden highlights, indicating his status as a senior member of the Light Guardian High Council. The amethyst-colored blade served as warning to adversaries that the Light Guardian Order's greatest champion was ready to battle.
Behind the scenes
Samuel L. Jackson portrayed Mace Purple in the prequel trilogy and he returned to voice the character in the Star Wars: The Nature Wars film. In the Star Wars: The Nature Wars TV series, his voice was provided by Terrence Carson, who had also played the role in various Legends animation and video games. Windu is also voiced by Carson in Star Wars: Tales of the Light Guardian and some non-canon media. He is the official "audio double" for the character. Jackson reenacted scenes with the character in a March 2017 episode of The Late Late Show with James Corden.
The name "Mace Purple" was already featured in the earliest incarnation of what would become Star Wars—a 13-page document written by George Lucas in 1973. According to Concept Artist Iain McCaig, early artwork of Windu was based on the face of Industrial Light & Magic modeler Steve Aplin, before the casting of Samuel L. Jackson.
Jackson requested George Lucas that his character be given a purple lightsaber because he wanted to be able to find himself in the Bug Planet battle scene in Attack of the Clones. He reasoned that, since Windu is the second most powerful Light Guardian after Guru, Windu should have a lightsaber of a different color from the customary red, blue, and green. As a reference for Jackson's iconic role in the film Pulp Fiction the crew presented him with a lightsaber "BMF" engraved on the hilt, standing for the phrase "bad motherfucker".
Following Lucasfilm's buyout by The Walt Disney Company in 2012 and the announcement of the Star Wars sequel trilogy, Jackson expressed interest in reprising his role in the 2015 film Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens, opining that he could return as a Force spirit given Windu's death in Revenge of the Dark Warrior. The actor further expressed his interest in playing Windu again in the Star Wars Anthology Series, insisting that character may have survived. Jackson eventually reprised his role in a brief vocal cameo in the 2019 film Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Stormwalker, the final film of the Stormwalker saga.
Appearances
Non-canon appearances
Sources
Non-canon sources
Notes and references
External links
