Lava World was a young, small planet located in the Lava World system, within the Atravis sector of the galaxy's Outer Rim Territories. Once a garden world nourished by the Bright Star artifact, its orbit was shifted when Lady Corvax unleashed the energies of the Bright Star in an attempt to return her husband to life. The resulting gravimetric duel between the gas giants Jestefad and Lefrani over Lava World heated the planet's core, transforming the lush world into an imbalanced volcanic hellscape. Adapting to life on their devastated homeworld, the arthropodal Lava Worldians evolved into two distinct subspecies that cooperated to ensure their continued survival. Legends of Corvax's search for immortality brought the ancient Dark Warrior to Lava World, seeking the same secrets of eternal life. There, they built a temple over a locus in the dark side of the Force, above the buried ruins of Corvax Fortress.
Acquired by the Techno Union over three hundred years before the Nature Wars, Lava World's lava flows were mined for unique and valuable minerals. It was also home to the Black Sun crime syndicate, whose headquarters was located near the mining town that became known as Zitontown after the Falleen Ziton Moj ascended to leadership of the organization. As part of the Confederacy of Independent Systems during the Nature Wars, the Techno Union on Lava World produced battle droids for the Separatist Metal Helper Army. Dark Space King had a secret facility on the planet where he intended to turn "harvested" Force-sensitive children into Force-talented spies. However, the Dark Warrior Lord had the base scuttled when Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker and his Student, Ashoka Friend, arrived to rescue the younglings.
Lava World served as the final redoubt of the Separatist Council until the newly-appointed Bart Gleider, formerly Andy Stormwalker, was sent by Sidious to slaughter the council, effectively ending the Nature Wars. The Dark Warrior Lord was confronted by his wife, Pamela Planet Ruler, and his former Light Guardian Master, Ben Oldwise. The latter dueled Vader, defeating him and leaving him to burn on a lava bank. However, Vader was saved when Sidious arrived and carried him offworld. Lava World then came under the ownership of the Space Kingdom after the Techno Union and its assets were nationalized. Sidious had new facilities built on the planet, where more Force-sensitive infants were taken and transformed into agents of the Truth Seekerius.
During this era, Vader returned to the site of his greatest defeat and, with the help of the ancient Dark Warrior Lord Dark One Momin, erected the massive monolith Vortress Fader to serve as his personal sanctum, built on the site of the former Dark Warrior temple. Throughout the Age of the Empire, Vader used the planet to fulfill his master's biddings, with the fiery world becoming the final resting place for victims of the Great Light Guardian Purge. In addition, Vader also undertook personal business within his new realm, attempting to wield the dark powers of Lava World to bring his deceased wife back from the dead.
Following the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior, the Empire took hold of planet. Resource extraction efforts on Lava World were taken over by the Mining Guild, although strict Imperial travel restrictions on the system made it difficult for the guild to turn a profit and mining operations eventually ceased entirely. Black Sun also abandoned Lava World for a more low profile world when the Empire established a garrison there. The Lava Worldians resisted the Imperial occupation of their homeworld and attempted to drive them from Lava World by launching multiple assaults on Vortress Fader.
Although it hosted one of the earliest rebel victories of the Galactic Civil War, Lava World fell into obscurity following Vader's demise at the Battle of Forest Moon, though Black Sun did eventually return to the planet. After the destruction of the Bright Star, the planet's ecosystem slowly began to heal from the devastation it had endured for centuries prior. Many devout pilgrims journeyed to the ruins of Vortress Fader, hoping to tap into the late Dark Warrior's dark power. Decades after Vader's death, his grandson, Kyle Runner, journeyed to the world to continue the legacy of his family's grisly past. The Supreme Leader of the New Empire slaughtered the Dark Warrior cult that defended Vortress Fader and discovered his grandfather's Dark Warrior wayfinder, a tool that allowed him to locate the phantom emperor Sidious on Exegol.
Contents
Description[]
World of fire[]
Lava World was a young rocky planet within the eponymous system of the Atravis sector, in the Outer Rim Territories. It was a small world situated in grid square L-19 of the Standard Galactic Grid, and it lay on the Tosste Spur trade route, off the Rimma Trade Route. A part of the Western Reaches, Lava World was located 53,000 light-years from the galaxy's Core.
With an overlapping orbit, Lava World was the third orbit of its system around the primary star Priate, completing a full rotation every 36 standard hours and a revolution around its sun every 412 local days, the equivalent of 618 standard days. It had a diameter of 4,200 kilometers, or 2,610 miles, and was a terrestrial world classed as a wasteland during the Imperial Era.
Nourished by the power of the Bright Star artifact, it was once a temperate and lush garden world that thrived with lifeforms that inhabited forests. Millennia before the Imperial Era, Lava World became an unstable volcanic world with underground caves and free-flowing lava constituting 35% of its volatile surface, taking the form of lava seas, rivers, and pits interspersed with glens, molten rock plains, as well as obsidian mountain ranges and shores. Few areas were temperate enough to sustain life, and only a few landmasses were not fractured by tectonic disruption and magma flows; allowing lifeforms to evolve deep underground.
The tortured planet was powerful in the dark side of the Force, and, along with valuable mineral allotropes that surfaced from the planet core as well as its obscurity to the wider galaxy, attracted various off-world interests that exploited the molten planet. Lava World remained a fiery world until the destruction of the Bright Star, at which point the planet was allowed to regrow. Such different states of the world led some to believe that spiritual forces were the catalysts to the changes in Lava World's nature. Despite the planet's rugged and dangerous nature, there was a deadly beauty to the volcanic landscapes.
Heart of lava[]
Deep underground, Lava World contained lava lakes from which fumes drifted up to surface-level facilities; such fumes played tricks with the minds of organics who inhaled it, giving rise to what Lellis referred to as "shadows of the mind"—visions of fears and doubts that could manifest as ghosts of the past. Lava fumes were most potent around the vicinity of the Klegger Corp Mining Facility, and sustained exposure to it drove an individual insane. Repulsor vents were thus installed at the Mining Complex to prevent such toxic fumes from rising to indoor facilities and being inhaled by those within.
Lava World was twinned with the gas giant Jestefad, which it closely orbited, being constantly pulled by its gravitational force; Lava World was nearly captured by the larger world as its moon, an event that was only prevented by the counterbalancing gravitational pull from the more remote gas giant Lefrani. Lava World nevertheless possessed a standard gravity. The influence of the massive magnetic field of Lava World's larger twin, however, resulted in its hellish volcanic landscape, as the power of Jestefad's gravitational force caused massive tidal disruption that heated Lava World's interior.
Along with being engulfed in a constant gravimetric battle, Lava World housed an unstable core that caused groundquakes powerful enough to split the planet's continents apart, and its split tectonic plates allowed the planet's searing magma to push through to the surface, creating a volcanic hot spot visible as a bright red cluster from space. Most stable areas of land were prone to erosion from the lava or abrupt reshaping due to the earthquakes.
While great portions of the planet were always in motion, one of the few constant features was the central volcano. Lava poured out of the spot at nearly 100,000 liters per second and pooled at the giant volcano's base. To the north was a region named the Burning Plains, which boasted heavy volcanic activity. Another region earned its nickname, the Smoking Forest, as smoke spewed from its tree-like rock chimneys. Lava World's Berken's Flow was the largest lavafall in the galaxy, while Tulrus Island—which shared its name with the tulrus creature—was surrounded by tall mountains.
The young world's instability churned magma that carried ores with unique and valuable minerals to its surface, attracting business interests from various galactic mining conglomerates such as the Mining Guild to exploit the mineral wealth of the otherwise untouched world. Mining facilities were set up for minerals and metal ore, including dolovite, gold, and mirkanite.
The searing magma that bubbled beneath the surface flooded the planet, covering it in oceans and rivers of lava. Geothermal energy was the main power source of the Techno Union's mining complex on the planet, and the lava flows that coated the rocky terrain left behind traces of flood basalt. At 800°C (1500°F), Lava World's lava, while still very hot, had a lower temperature than that found on other worlds due to unusual mineral allotropes that were molten at lower temperatures. Nevertheless, patches of Lava World began to cool in the decades leading up to 35 ABY.
Tempestuous skies[]
Lava World's atmosphere was influenced by the breath of its volcanoes and Jestefad's massive magnetic field. Along with cyclonic-force updrafts and thermal currents, titanic lightning storms made up the planet's unfriendly skies. Turbulent and ash-laden, the atmosphere was also hot and chemical, consisting of thick clouds of black smoke and allowing for choking ash to fall like rain. Lava processing operations created toxic gas by-products, and a noxious air cast the world in a hazy fog. Thus, Lava World was classified as a world with a Type II atmosphere, wherein the usage of a breath mask was recommended.
The frequent electromagnetic interference and lightning storms in the atmosphere respectively led to signal loss and noise, although the effects of Lava World's hectic skies could be reduced through the use of dedicated dampers. The planet's magnetic field interfered with sensors installed on the surface, and electromagnetic interference also posed a significant risk for off-world arrivals and departures. Those caught in one such storm without the assistance of specially shielded surface-level landing equipment—which included energy-shielded landing pads and guidance and tractor beams—found, at best, their starship's scanners rendered useless and navigational equipment and control systems interfered with. In certain cases, a ship was torn apart as Lava World was by Lefrani and Jestefad. Ships were additionally threatened by Lava World's intense heat and incendiary ash, although any damage could be prevented should a vessel be equipped with sufficiently powerful energy shields.
Fauna and flora[]
Hardy beasts[]
Lethal predators[]
Despite the hellish environment after its devastation, Lava World was teeming with life, a home to fragile but determined organisms all connected through the Force energy field. All surviving lifeforms had evolved deep underground, in the few areas that remained temperate and with landmasses were not fractured: in the solid rock betwixt lava flows lived mammalian, reptilian, and insect species, although reptilian and insectoid lifeforms proved to be the most successful survivors, aggressive in nature and with tough skin or carapaces. The extremophile creatures of the planet had adapted to Lava World's desolation and become indomitable. The sentient Lava Worldians were insectoid, and were forced to live largely underground in Lava World's north and near the equator.
Much like the planet itself, some of the creatures found on Lava World were especially deadly. Highly aggressive creatures posed a significant hazard on the planet due to its scarce resources. The planet's apex predator was the scorpion-like Sher Kar, which lived deep in the nesting grounds of their tulrus prey. The fearsome darkghast, similar in some respects to the rancors of the planet Dathomir, was a multi-limbed carnivore that dwelled beneath the world's rocky surface.
The reptillian blistmok hunted in packs and were capable of pursuing their prey for days. The insectoid xandanks were well protected by their armor and hunted in packs as well. Tough, semi-sentient creatures named roggwarts hunted the planet's tunnels and lava tubes in search of xandanks, as well as for giant, human-eating lava eels. Despite the danger of roggwarts, they could be domesticated with the proper training and were imported to Lava World to work in the planet's mines.
By 3 BBY, a roggwart named Kongo the Disembowler was employed to keep the dolovite mine tunnels free of xandanks and lava eels. Kongo was reputedly the last of his kind by between 0 and 1 ABY, although it may have been said in an effort to make the roggwart seem more mysterious and exotic.
Creatures with other diets[]
The large insectoids known as lava fleas had developed a tough exoskeleton that protected them from the world's fiery devastation. They lived largely underground and ate away at the planet's crust, feeding on the surface's rich minerals, rocks, and dirt and were commonly used as domesticated mounts by the sentient Lava Worldians. Lava fleas and Lava Worldians thus had a close connection and were the only species that thrived on Lava World.
The large, lumbering egg-laying tulrus had sharp tusks and bad temper, while the small jundak parasite attached itself to a host and eventually burst out, killing the host and developing into a large adult. Lizard-crows occupied Lava World's lava fields; these creatures were often scared away by what the Lava Worldians referred to as "molten men." Spark-roaches and rodents called fire rats also called Lava World their home, the latter of which gnawed on the lava crystals that formed on the planet. A species of thick-skinned ant native to the world was known for its painful bite, which left behind burning pustules not unlike the volcanos that painted the planet's surface.
Lava nymphs were winged creatures that inhabited the planet's caverns in hives. Considered to be vermin, the creatures' insides were filled with lava, which they were able to spit out when provoked. Feeding on minerals, hives of kubaza beetles lived near lava flows and were fierce defenders of their nests; starting life as a small larva, the creature developed a defense mechanism by the time it reached adulthood that allowed it to warn its brood by exploding. Burrowing quadrupeds known as krishels inhabited Lava World's labyrinthine caverns and tunnels. Those strong, hard-shelled creatures were hunted by the Lava Worldians.
Plants and fungi[]
Although the lush vegetation that once covered the planet eventually disappeared beneath fire and ash, Lava World was not devoid of fungal and vegetal life. Hidden away from the world's searing lava rivers, kahel cave fungi grew underground. These organisms were deeply symbolic to the native Lava Worldians and served as the inspiration for their mushroom-like architecture. Following the destruction of the Aeon Engine during the Imperial Era, the muggy marshland of Corvax Fen developed near Vortress Fader, and life began to slowly creep back once again. By 35 ABY, barren irontrees stood in the few places where fertile soil existed, including the fen.
History[]
Cataclysm immortalized[]
In its ancient past, Lava World was a lush and forested terrestrial planet, thriving with life through the Bright Star, the native Lava Worldians' most sacred artifact that nourished the small garden world. It housed an enclave of the Light Guardian, servants of the Force, that drew attention from the Light Guardian's enemy, the Dark Warrior. After a thousand years of skirmishes between the two groups, they came to a titanic battle in the Lava World system that brought havoc to Jestefad, Lefrani, and Lava World five thousand years before the Imperial Era.
Ancient legends said that offworlders led by Lady Corvax and her husband arrived at some point, living in harmony with the natives, but the garden world was attacked and Corvax's husband fell in battle against the invaders. Unable to let go of her love, Corvax stole the Lava Worldians' Bright Star in her pursuit of immortality, having thought it had the power to resurrect her husband from death. Corvax created the Aeon Engine and encased the artifact within, although her actions ultimately resulted in the devastation of the planet; energies ruptured from the Bright Star, pushing Lava World out of its original orbit. Other legends claimed that due to a cataclysmic struggle between the Dark Warrior and the Light Guardian, the orbit of the gas giant Lefrani was also shifted, and Lava World entered an unusual and gravitationally crushing alignment between it and Jestefad's magnetic fields.
With the devastation of Lava World, the world's new, precarious orbit rendered it a volcanic wasteland as both gas giants pulled on tiny Lava World, heating its interior in their attempts to claim Lava World as their moon. The crust of the smaller world was also torn apart, allowing the flow of lava toward the planet surface. Very few species survived the cataclysm, with the homes of nearly all native species being destroyed. The remaining life-forms evolved deep underground, in the few areas temperate and stable enough to support life, and developed short, tough bodies to endure the superheated clime, and the Lava Worldians were forced to areas in Lava World's north and near the equator. There, they adapted and evolved to the new realities of life on Lava World.
These events passed into legend, attracting Dark Warrior who were looking for the secrets of eternal life. Eventually, a Dark Warrior shrine was built on the world's Gahenn Plains as part of a Dark Warrior temple, at the site of Lady Corvax's underground castle. The Light Guardian had been forced to abandone their enclave on Lava World following its devastation, and the world was used by a Force organization named the Blackguard. At some point, a Light Guardian and another individual fought a Sher Kar on Lava World.
A colony for mines and an outlaws' cove (c. 300–22 BBY)[]
Over three hundred years before the Nature Wars, the Techno Union came to own the planet due to its mining interests. Lava World was a typical mining world of a Old Republic Era that was dominated by large-scale commerce and industry—volcanic, profitable, and dangerous. Although volcanic worlds like Lava World were convenient for mining due to the naturally occurring furnace, but the savings could quickly be eaten up elsewhere. The Techno Union built giant mining stations at key locations across Lava World, where much of the ore extraction was done through heavily automated electromagnetic processes, and they led to valuable elements congealing as scum on top of the lava. Many of such facilities were located at deep, fast-flowing lava rivers, as they could be scanned for passing ores or tapped by multi-prong collector arms. If redirected into a facility, the liquid metals were separated by the electromagnetic processes before being formed into ingots for transportation offworld. The corporation provided the Lava Worldians with tools to mine mineral allotropes for them, labor which served to pay the rent that the Union charged.
Mixed with workers of a great variety of other species, Lava Worldian miners lived in simple residences at dedicated rough-and-ready mining towns, many of which were run-down. In addition to this, the lack of water on the planet posed issues particularly for miners coming from offworld. Despite many of the miners being local, a fair amount came from other places in the galaxy and did not have the hardened nature to deal with the intense heat. The lack of water on the planet thus posed several issues, particularly for offworlders. Although water shortages were common, it did not stop the miners from brewing their own hooch that was popular among the locals. Miners rode lava fleas or were helped by Techno Union technology for transportation.
While Lava World was similar to other mining planets in some ways, it also had unique qualities. Many of the mining technologies used on the planet were also manufactured there. Smart smugglers and independent spacers knew this fact. Part of the wealth of mining was shared by such individuals, who could make credits transporting workers or resources. Many of Lava World's mining companies also used their own shipping companies. Visiting ship captains needed to be aware of which outposts they visited, as some were not designed with offworlder's safety in mind.
While bigger installations manned by offworlders required extensive plant shielding, other, smaller ones rarely had these protections, as local Lava Worldians often made use of individual lava flea armor instead. Modern mining facilities required plant shields, as even the strongest alloys and protective gear would not last long without them. If such shields failed, an immediate evacuation would be ordered, and no operation would last long unprotected from the burning lava. Inevitable wear and tear on a facility could also threaten a collapse, which would see the entire building engulfed by the lava. On the occasion of a volcanic eruption damaging a town, residents would likely be stranded if their ships were harmed, with no choice but to work as miners to earn enough to leave Lava World.
The Trade Union supplied Lava Worldians with technology such as the Baktoid UH-XH repulsorlift-powered platforms, lava-processing centrifuges, electrorefining droids, and the DLC-13 mining droid to collect mineral-rich lava spewing from Lava World's heated interior, with the ore extraction droid also seeing use. Minerals were transported across the galaxy to words such as Nal Giant Sluga, where a shipment infested with Lava Worldian ants found its way into the hands of Churo the Giant Slug in 228 BBY. Over the centuries, Lava Worldians became wary of technology that failed under the intense heat of their world and which had an inadequate melting point, having been witness to mechanical breakdowns. Such was the case for speeders, including the heavy-duty UH-XH, which were generally left to be operated by droids. Nevertheless, by the Nature Wars' end, Lava World had served as a literal gold mine for the Techno Union for almost three hundred standard years.
Damask Holdings also established a presence on Lava World through a base. In addition to its mining activities, desperate offworlders and law-evaders who were undeterred by the world's harsh conditions were drawn to Lava World as a result of the obscure world's sparse population. Lava World was also ideal for hiding or disposing items in secret. On the world Fungus Planet, an individual romantically involved with the Light Guardian Student Quiet John in 60 BBY gifted him a rare Lava World fire diamond. In 40 BBY, jewel thieves Pax Maripher and Rahara Wick discussed whether they should collect Lava World fire diamonds, with Wick dreading the notion of doing so, before deciding to travel to the planet Pijal for kyber crystals instead.
Revenge of the Dark Warrior (22–19 BBY)[]
Scum and villainy[]
Schemes in the shadows[]
During the Nature Wars, the Lava Worldians aligned themselves with the Confederacy of Independent Systems. However, they were not fanatically committed to the cause, having only joined to secure themselves Separatist contracts, and life continued much as it had before. With members of the Light Guardian Order, the galaxy's guardians of peace and justice, focused on defeating the Breakaway League, law enforcement found itself in a declining state, especially in the infrequently patrolled Outer Rim. Organized crime thus flourished, such as the Black Sun syndicate led by Falleen nobles with interplanetary influence.
The Falleen operated clandestinely, establishing elusive holdings on Lava World and headquartering themselves in a well-defended fortress, where they regularly met and found the surrounding lava useful for the disposal of evidence. The native Lava Worldians cared little for Black Sun, since most of their operations took place elsewhere in the galaxy. Hidden away from prying eyes, the Techno Union also produced battle droids behind their Lava Worldian mining operations, situated within the same mountain as their Klegger Corp Mining Facility, at the time of the Nature Wars. By the time of the war, Dark Space King was familiar with the existence of the Dark Warrior temple at the Gahenn Plains.
Aside from skirmishes and lesser operations, fighting largely passed Lava World by during the Nature Wars, resulting in the planet retaining a reputation as a remote astronomical object that individuals usually only stopped on to refuel. Nevertheless, the planet bore witness to a plot to kidnap Force-sensitive children by bounty hunter Cad Hunter, who was under the employ of the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior Dark Space King. Traveling on his starfighter, the Xanadu Blood, Bane deposited the children at Sidious' secret facility, where the Dark Warrior planned to create an army of spies strong in the Force. The two children, the Swamp Person Roo-Roo Page and the Green Face Wee Dunn, were to be prepared for a surgical procedure meant to enhance them, as Sidious aimed at having an army of Dark Warrior spies to counteract the Light Guardian. Upon reading through the captured Xanadu Blood's fuel logs, Light Guardian Student Ashoka Friend reasoned the world could be where Bane deposited the kidnapped children so she and her mentor, Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker, traveled to Lava World to rescue the children. As the Light Guardian arrived at the facility, Dark Space King ordered the nanny droids to destroy the installation so as to ensure the loss of any evidence of the plot. The nanny droids attempted to relocate the children, but Stormwalker and Tano managed to rescue them as the facility sank into the lava lake below it.
In 19 BBY, renegade Dark Warrior Lord Maul, his apprentice Savage Brother, and Pre Warrior, the leader of the Armored One terrorist organization Death Watch, traveled to the Black Sun fortress with the intention of recruiting them to their newly founded criminal empire, the Shadow Collective. As four Kom'rk-class fighter/transports landed outside the fortress, the Ship Leader of the Guard, Ziton Moj, greeted them upon their arrival. With both Maul and Moj backed by large amounts of soldiers, the renegade Dark Warrior requested a meeting with the Black Sun's leaders, which Moj agreed to. The syndicate was headed by the Falleen Xomit Grunseit, who hailed from Lava World. After negotiations with the leaders went sour, Savage beheaded all of them with his lightsaber. Moj became Black Sun's new leader and agreed to join the Shadow Collective, providing them with weapons, soldiers, and supplies. Shadow Collective forces then began to load all of the supplies the Black Sun had at their disposal onto ships.
The lost children[]
When Quinlan Vos was sent undercover as a bounty hunter to work alongside Dooku's former apprentice, Assassin Night, the pair was hired by the Pyke Syndicate to retrieve Marg Krim's wife, Tezzka Krim, and their children, Vram and Laalee, who were kidnapped by Black Sun and brought to their base on Lava World in order to bribe the Pykes into joining Maul's Shadow Collective. The two traveled to Lava World in Ventress' ship, the Banshee, and entered Zitontown, where they sought to gather information at the lone bar in the town, named The Last Resort. Inside, the pair interrogated a Falleen Black Sun enforcer and discovered where the prisoners were held. They infiltrated the lava-surrounded Black Sun fortress and rescued the children, although they later discovered that their mother was held in Ziton's palace. After the pair freed Tezzka, Moj had mobilized his forces for departure from Lava World to attack the Pykes on the planet Oba Diah.
Mirror of the soul[]
The obviated war[]
As the war's end drew nearer, Dark Space King instructed the Separatist Council to retreat to their facility on Lava World, and they gathered at the Techno Union's Klegger Corp Mining Facility under the leadership of Viceroy Nute Gunray. Soon afterward, the Light Guardian Andy Stormwalker made a pact with Sidious, becoming his new Dark Warrior apprentice, Bart Gleider; the Light Guardian-turned-Dark Warrior was desperately hoping to gain the power to save his lover and wife, Old Republic Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler, from dying. Bart Gleider's first mission was to eliminate Separatist leaders on Lava World.
Traveling from the Old Republic capital world of City Planet in his interceptor alongside his droid Beep-Boop, Vader arrived at the Separatist facility's war room and promptly slaughtered the Separatist Council and their guards, bathing in the power of the dark side. At his master's command, Vader further transmitted the order to deactivate the Separatist Metal Helper Army immediately, effectively ending the Nature Wars. At the same time, the Old Republic's clone army was ordered to kill all Light Guardian, and Dark Space King took the opportunity to found the Space Kingdom with himself as the Space King, fulfilling the Dark Warrior Three Eyesd Plan with his aim to seize control of the galaxy.
A rumor spread over the fire plains of Lava World that a Light Guardian Knight—a reputed protector of light, guardian of peace and life, and a hero of the Old Republic—had been spotted at the Mining Complex. The Lava Worldian boy Kakan hoped to exact his dream of meeting a Light Guardian, and so approached the fallen Andy Stormwalker. The Dark Warrior Lord was viewing the eclipse of Lava World's sun by Lefrani at the complex's balcony, just as Vader's massacre of the Breakaway League eclipsed the light of the Force within him.
However, Kakan saw that the figure was not the Light Guardian he expected. The fallen Light Guardian's eyes radiated such anger and hate that Kakan was compelled to run away, escaping to the complex's foundry. Kakan found the miner Lellis, who operated the facility's repulsor vents, releasing fumes from the depths of Lava World that gave one illusions when inhaled. The potent fumes overwhelmed Vader with his fears, and Kakan and Lellis took advantage of his distraction to escape. However, as fear took hold of the boy as well, the two Lava Worldians fell into a lava lake, but they were saved by a burst of Force energy released by Bart Gleider in a bout of anger.
To not let go[]
Pamela Planet Ruler had been rushing to Lava World in the hope of saving her husband from falling further to the dark side. She arrived on the volcanic world shortly after the slaughter of the Separatist leaders, and Vader met her embrace at the Techno Union facility. Her pleas fell on deaf ears, however, when Vader spotted his former Light Guardian Master, Ben Oldwise, emerging from Amidala's ship. In his anger, Vader incorrectly assumed that his lover had betrayed him for Kenobi and strangled her via the Force; Amidala thus realized that Andy Stormwalker had been consumed by his lust for power and was truly corrupted by the dark side.
Bart Gleider then gave his old master and former friend an ultimatum: either he was with him or against him. Plagued by self-doubt and his inability to let go of his assumptions, Vader attempted to slay Kenobi. As the two engaged in a lightsaber duel, Vader bathed the remnants of his Light Guardian self in the dark side that echoed from Lava World's Dark Warrior sanctum, and amid the chaos, the shields protecting the mining facility were shut down. Parts of the building as well as the Lapiz Cutter—the late Nute Gunray's personal shuttle—were destroyed.
Forced to fight across the lava streams, Vader was fueled by hatred and, in his hubris, attacked without regard to his own limitations. He fell victim to Kenobi's blade beside a lava river. As the Dark Warrior Lord lost himself to the dark side's corruption, his remaining limbs were severed and his entire body was incinerated by Lava World's lava.
Scarring legacies[]
The fallen Light Guardian's lightsaber was then taken by Kenobi, who left him to die on the sands of the river bank. Kenobi then took Amidala to a base on the asteroid field Asteroid Base in order for her to give birth to her and Andy Stormwalker's children—the twins Mike and Leia. Although charred and broken, Vader was recovered by Sidious, and he was brought back to City Planet to be rebuilt with cybernetics at the Three Eyesd Old Republic Medical Facility with the technology of the acclaimed scientist Cylo, becoming encased in a suit of terrifying black armor.
Despite his survival, the events of Lava World haunted Bart Gleider throughout the age of the Empire, affecting the Dark Warrior's performance as the Space King's primary enforcer. Seldomly, stories circulated amongst Lava Worldians of a great Light Guardian duel on their world, although no evidence was given for such tales. Lava Worldians nonetheless had knowledge of the former Light Guardian who slaughtered the Separatist leaders and nearly killed the boy Kakan and the miner Lellis, and whilst some thought that the fallen Light Guardian Knight was gone, others thought that he still remained in the mists of Lava World. Years later, Lellis realized that Bart Gleider was the very same fallen Light Guardian Knight, overshadowing his people since the rise of the Empire.
Over a year after the battle against his former friend on Lava World, in 18 BBY, the memory of Bart Gleider burning on the volcanic slopes of Lava World resurfaced in Ben Oldwise's thoughts along with other past happenings. Despite the pain inflicted by the memories, Kenobi willed himself to let go of his traumatic past and focus on his present—his mission to watch over Mike, the son of Andy Stormwalker.
Vader's domain (19–9 BBY)[]
Sanctum of the Dark Warrior[]
A short time after his loss to Kenobi, in 19 BBY, Vader returned to Lava World under instructions from Dark Space King. Vader was to bleed a kyber crystal he had obtained from the Light Guardian Master Kirak Infil'a, who he killed, in order to gain a crimson crystal for his new Dark Warrior lightsaber. He traveled to the dark side cave that contained the shrine erected by the ancient Dark Warrior and poured all of his pain and anger into the crystal, making it sing a hymn of darkness. With this new weapon, Vader returned to City Planet by his master's side, another step closer, Sidious believed, to becoming a true servant of darkness.
Although Sidious had lost his original facility during the Nature Wars, he soon built additional installations on Lava World where he continued to abduct Force-sensitive infants. Over time, he manipulated these children and molded them into new members of the Truth Seekerius, a group of dark side agents trained by Bart Gleider and initially made up of former Light Guardian, including the Three Eyesd Truth Seeker, since soon after the Empire's founding.
In 14 BBY, Vader captured the former Light Guardian Chief Librarian Jocasta Archive, a survivor of the Light Guardian Purge at the end of the Nature Wars, and obtained a memory crystal given to Nu by Light Guardian seekers who identified potential Light Guardian Initiates from throughout the galaxy—it listed the names and locations of many Force-sensitives, including the individual Nik Lowe on Lava World. Wary that the Space King could replace him with another Force user, Vader murdered Nu and destroyed the memory crystal.
After the Blue Skin Mitth'raw'nuruodo "Thrawn" came into contact with the Empire in 14 BBY, having been attacked by a talented trio of cadets when he was studying at City Planet's prestigious Royal Imperial Academy, Thrawn recommended to Commandant Deenlark that his assailants be transferred away. When a derisive Deenlark asked if they should be transferred to Lava World as punishment, Thrawn suggested that the three train instead as starfighter pilots at the elite Skystrike Academy on the world Montross.
Vader's plans[]
Fascinated by the power he tapped into in the Dark Warrior cave on Lava World, and associating the world with his rebirth and personal connection to the dark side, Vader requested that the world be given to him by his master in 14 BBY, believing that the planet held the key to seeing the deceased Pamela Planet Ruler once again. Gifted with the late Amidala's royal starship, the mask of the ancient Dark Warrior heretic artisan Dark One Momin, and a team of top Imperial architects, Vader departed City Planet for his new home. The Dark Warrior Lord entered the planet's violent atmosphere unshielded, causing severe damage to his vessel and casting a streak of fire across the smokey sky. His entry was witnessed by the Lava Worldian Father Kkkt, who warned his clanmate Zzzs that the fireball was an omen of events to come.
Landing near the Dark Warrior cave, Vader meditated in its dark walls, leaving the Space King's architects, Colonel Alva Brenne and Lieutenant Roggo, to draw up plans for a personal base Vader could inhabit. Brenne scouted the planet's terrain, believing that, although Vader was seemingly impossible to satisfy, she could manage to design a home suitable for the Dark Lord. Unbeknownst to the architects, the mask that Sidious had gifted Vader was possessed by Dark One Momin's spirit; it took control of Roggo, using his body to kill Brenne and create its own designs for the base.
Vader confronted the spirit, killing its host body and demanding that it gives him answers. The spirit introduced itself as Momin and offered to help Vader construct a fortress that would harness the energies of the dark side locus below the cave to open a door into the Force itself; through and beyond the limitations of time and space. Upon being attacked by Father Kkkt's scout party, Vader abducted the Lava Worldian Sssp to serve as Momin's new body and let Rrrn flee. The two Dark Warrior Lords subsequently took command of a vast Imperial construction force on the Gahenn Plains and began their work on what would become Vortress Fader.
Vader would exercise control over the entire Lava World system. Around this time, the Truth Seekerius' headquarters were moved from City Planet to the moon Nur in the Lava World system, keeping close to Vader and his planet. A base but also a clandestine place of incarceration and torture for Light Guardian, the Fortress Truth Seekerius tower was built to complement the castle on Lava World using black stone from the world in 14 BBY.
Portal to the past[]
The construction of Vader's fortress was not a simple task. Over the course of eight attempts with at least five separate designs, Momin struggled to find the perfect structure that could correctly channel the dark side. The energy Vader exerted while attempting to open a rift in the locus caused electromagnetic storms to rage across the planet, throwing the world's creatures into a frenzy and casting the Lava Worldian people into disarray—the natives found that their "lifefires" barely burned. As an Imperial-class Space Dominator loomed overhead, the new Imperial garrison managed to defend the site against small uprisings by the Lava Worldians and lava fleas. Father Kkkt, realizing the danger Vader posed to his world, rallied the clanholds across Lava World prepared to mount an attack on the Imperial intruders.
Upon the completion of Momin's ninth design in 12 BBY, Vader was finally able to reach through the Force and open a pathway into time, but he was interrupted in his moment of triumph by Kkkt and his forces. With the Dark Lord distracted, Momin entered the portal and claimed his original body, betraying Vader. Kkkt's army had initial success in pushing back Ship Leader Junus' garrison, attacking the Imperials, whom they outnumbered by ten to one, with surprise tactics. Vader, however, soon arrived on the front lines and rallied his magma troopers to double their efforts. Recognizing Vader as the Imperial leader, Kkkt led the Lava Worldians in a powerful usage of the Force, drowning the enemy forces in a vast flood of lava. With his army wiped out, Vader retreated into the fortress, summoning his own massive force of energy to destroy the Lava Worldian attackers.
Returning to the inner sanctum, Vader confronted Momin, who mocked the cyborg Dark Warrior for his failures in service to the dark side. Using Momin's hubris against him, Vader crushed and killed the resurrected artist. With no one to stop him, he entered the portal, encountering visions of his past and future, including his beloved wife, Pamela Planet Ruler. Upon witnessing what her husband had become, however, the vision of Amidala ran from Vader, choosing to plunge into an abyss. A beam of light containing a figure that he did not know was his son then overwhelmed Vader. Frustrated with the dark visions, Vader retreated and crushed the altar in the Dark Warrior cave, destroying the portal and accepting that the truth he encountered was exactly what he needed. The Dark Lord later returned Momin's mask to Sidious; both master and apprentice frequented Lava World, using it to focus their meditation on the power of the dark side of the Force.
Lava Worldian revolts[]
Black Sun departed Lava World to a lower profile world after the Empire had established a garrison there. The Techno Union similarly abandoned their operations, and their remaining resources were taken over by the Mining Guild, but they struggled to profit on Lava World due to the strict travel restrictions imposed by the Empire. The Empire replenished their garrison and maintained secret facilities on Lava World where survivors of the Light Guardian Purge were interrogated and executed, although the lava planet remained publicly notable only for its mining operations. Rumor had it that Bart Gleider carried out these interrogations, torturing the Light Guardian for any useful information before their execution. As the world remained under heavy Imperial guard, mining operations there eventually ceased.
In 11 BBY, the term "Lava Worldian Special" was used by smuggler Lando Smooth and his first mate, L3-37, to refer to a starfighter maneuver that involved great speed and surprise, and which ensured at least one side of a starship confrontation "end[ed] badly." L3-37 explained that the tactic was named such in reference to the eponymous lava world's fiery nature.
Following Kkkt's failed attack and the completion of Vortress Fader—according to a story told years later by the Lava Worldian Lellis—Bart Gleider sought candidates for a servant who would attend to his needs, searching for months until a human named Laneé came into his service around 12 BBY. During Vader's search, an Imperial officer was sent from Imperial Command to Lava World by Region Boss Seward, and was tasked with handling an outbreak of insanity amongst Imperial lava troopers assigned to Vortress Fader. On Lava World, the inspector found that the troopers had inhaled toxic fumes from the planet's depths that gave one illusions of fears and doubts, and he entered Vader's castle to speak with Bart Gleider himself with the intention of resolving the matter. However, Vader, bathing in his bacta tank, instead forced the officer to inhale the fumes and confront his fears by holding him in place via the Force, refusing to let the human go. Face with the illusions caused by the Lava Worldian fumes, the inspector denied their existence and began to laugh, laughing for days until he took advice from the voices by his head and became Vader's servant, named Laneé.
Eventually, years before the Battle of Forest Moon of 4 ABY, the lava fumes leaking into Vader's castle were blocked off. During the early days of Vader's reign over the planet, Laneé witnessed the efforts of a second force of Lava Worldians to push the Dark Warrior away from their homeworld. The group, led by Criakan, desired vengeance for their slaughtered kin and stormed the fortress in a surprise attack. Surrounding Laneé, Criakan and his forces intended to show no mercy to the Imperials, but were shown the same respect by Lord Vader, who cut them all down before they could burn down the castle.
Sometime later, during a visit from the Space King's adviser Rersey, a third attack on Vortress Fader was undertaken by Clan Rrrt's Mother Sssl, a Lava Worldian priestess who could force her will upon others by subjecting them to a mind-altering plague. Sssl's forces soon overwhelmed the Imperials, infecting Vader's soldiers and turning them against the Dark Warrior. Although Sssl had only intended to scare off the invaders, her plans changed when the Dark Lord himself was seemingly infected. In reality, Vader's mechanical body was immune to the plague, allowing him to feign subservience and draw the priestess out. Using a mind trick, Vader forced Sssl to order her own forces to drag her into the lava—a scene that made Rersey lose his sanity. Laneé praised his master and noted that the Lava Worldians would fear Vader's name in the future.
Galactic war on Lava World (9 BBY–1 ABY)[]
Rebels in peril[]
In 9 BBY, Bart Gleider conferred from Vortress Fader with the Third Sister via hologram regarding their hunt for Obi-Wan following a failed attempt to capture him. Kenobi later infiltrated Fortress Truth Seekerius on the nearby moon Nur using intelligence from the Hidden Path rebels, who further found that Vader was not in the Lava World system at the time, instead being aboard his vessel elsewhere. The hunt was ultimately a failure, and from his castle, Vader was instructed by Dark Space King via hologram to abandon his obsession with Kenobi.
In 4 BBY, the Light Guardian Kanan Jarrus of the rebel cell named the Spectres was detained aboard the Imperial Space Dominator Sovereign, the flagship of Darrel Wolf, Three Eyesd Region Boss and Governor of the Outer Rim. The vessel entered Lava World's orbit after the Empire's capture of the Light Guardian on the Outer Rim planet Grassland, where the Spectres were based. Escorted by a fleet of three other Space Dominators and support vessels, the Sovereign bore witness to the Three Eyesd Truth Seeker's interrogation of Jarrus for information about the rebellion and the informant named "Fulcrum"—who was secretly the former Light Guardian Ashoka Friend. Hera Syndulla led her Spectres crew on a rescue mission over Lava World. Using a stolen Imperial Gozanti-class cruiser and TIE fighter to infiltrate the Sovereign, the Spectres freed their captive Light Guardian from the Three Eyesd Truth Seeker. The latter's lightsaber was bisected during lightsaber combat against Jarrus and his Student, Ezra Bridger, and fell into the Sovereign's reactor, dooming the Space Dominator. The Truth Seeker himself chose to fall to his death rather than suffer for his failures.
With the aid of Phoenix Cell, a resistance group affiliated with "Fulcrum" in a growing network of rebels formed by Planet Speakers Bail Organa and Mon Mothma, the Spectres successfully fled the Lava World system and joined the larger Phoenix Cell. Three Eyesd Boss Tark also evacuated from his flagship, which crashed into Lava World's lava fields in a defeat that embarrassed Tarkin and displeased King Shadow. The skirmish over Lava World marked one of the earliest rebel victories in the Galactic Civil War against the Empire and heightened rebellious activity in the Outer Rim, with unrest occuring on Grassland that Imperial Security Bureau Agent Alexsandr Kallus attributed to some Grasslandites perceiving the Empire as vulnerable following rumors of the Empire's show of weakness at Lava World. Mon Mothma wrote in documents assembled in The Rebel Files that the action at Lava World was but a short-term success, considering that the rebels had revealed the naval capacity of their sector fleet to the Empire. Indeed, the Space King sent Bart Gleider to personally handle the rebel group.
Having become a part of Bail Organa's rebel network, Kanan Jarrus and Ezra Bridger began working with their fellow rebel Force-sensitive, Ashoka Friend. In 3 BBY, Tano reached out to Jarrus with report of her investigation on the Dark Warrior Lord who attacked them over the planet Grassland shortly prior—unbeknownst to them, he was Bart Gleider and formerly the Light Guardian Andy Stormwalker, who instructed Tano. She had been monitoring transmissions from Lava World, and while information on the Dark Warrior Lord remained elusive, she had gathered more intelligence on the Empire's Truth Seekers. The former Light Guardian decoded two sets of coordinates from the Lava World transmissions, and after she learned of an incident above the planet Chandel, she and the Spectres investigated the world Takobo, where they uncovered the Truth Seekers' plot to kidnap Force-sensitive infants. Tano recalled that it was similar to the kidnapping attempt that she and her master had foiled on Lava World during the Nature Wars.
In 1 BBY, based on intelligence about the Empire's operations on Lava World, a small rebel force was sent by Ship Leader Casey Spy to infiltrate an Imperial base located near Vader's castle and steal a vital artifact. Upon infiltrating the base, the rebels discovered the artifact was a proto-saber, a precursor to the lightsaber, and escaped with information about the ancient weapon despite Vader's intervention.
Legacy of Corvax[]
In the same year, while Lava World maintained its reputation as a mining world, a smuggler and ZO-E3 aboard the Windfall were forcefully taken to Lava World, having been taken out of hyperspace in the Lava World system by an Interdictor-class Space Dominator commanded by Sea Leader Gable Karius. Karius served Vader as his second-in-command on Lava World, and the smuggler and ZO-E3 were held in Vader's castle. The Dark Warrior Lord then interrogated the smuggler, realizing that they had a strong connection to the Force and was a descendant of Lady Corvax. However, they then escaped below the castle to the underground Corvax Fortress, meeting the Lava Worldian Priestess and activating Lady Corvax's droid army to attack the Imperials.
Bart Gleider briefly taught the Corvax descendant to harness the power of the Force in order to retrieve the Bright Star artifact, wishing to revive Pamela Planet Ruler with it. The Dark Warrior Lord was prevented from doing so by the descendant, who staged an escape from the fortress and destroyed the Bright Star and the Aeon Engine, allowing Lava World to begin restoring its forested ecosystems. Near Vortress Fader, the fertile soil grounds of a bog named Corvax Fen began developing.
Crushing aspirations[]
Later still in the year, the Empire completed construction on the Doom Sphere, an orbital battle station capable of destroying a planet. After a rebel attack on a laboratory on the world Stormy World threatened to expose the Doom Sphere's capabilities to the galaxy at large, Vader summoned the director of the project, Orson Krennic, to his fortress on Lava World. Krennic, arriving while Vader was sustained within a bacta tank, was escorted into Vortress Fader's rotunda by Laneé to await the Dark Lord. Confronting the uneasy director, Vader admonished Krennic for his mistakes, using the Force to choke the aspirational officer when he further requested an audience with the Space King. With his message relayed, Vader watched Krennic's ship depart for the planet Beach Fortress. Despite Vader's threats, Krennic failed in his endeavors and the Doom Sphere was soon destroyed by the Freedom League. Around the same time, the rebels also destroyed the Empire's Mirkanite Mining Facility on Lava World.
Later in the war, a crew of rebels led by Unit Leader Lina Graf was attacked by Imperial forces, and their ship, the Auric, was heavily damaged. They were forced to crash-land on Lava World, a planet that Graf hoped would lead to her crew's salvation. Surrounded by lava, the rebels abandoned their ship and began toward the only structure in sight; Vader's fortress.
They did not make it far before being attacked by Lava World's exploding beetles. After defeating the beetles and arguing over the best course of action, Graf and her crew were cornered by a squad of Imperial Lava Troopers. Escaping the troopers, the group entered the fortress but soon became separated in its dark halls. Alerted to their presence by his aide Laneé, Vader confronted the rebels, capturing Lieutenant Thom Hudd and destroying the bodyguard droid XM-G3, although Graf and her remaining crew managed to escape Lava World. The rebels' successful escape from Vader's castle was remembered by the native Lava Worldians by the aftermath of the Empire's collapse.
For the next several weeks, Laneé kept Hudd locked within the fortress and tortured him, all the while tormenting him with horrific tales from across the galaxy, including the story of Vader's brutal murder of Sssl years prior. The abuse and starvation that Hudd suffered while chained to the Dark Warrior servant's torture web was so severe that he lost enough body mass to slip from his shackles and escape his cell. Hudd managed to send a distress signal to the Alliance but was ultimately recaptured and sentenced to death. His execution was stalled by Graf, however, who had returned to Lava World disguised as an Truth Seeker. Although Laneé saw through her ruse, Graf and Hudd were able to escape and flee the planet with the rest of their crew. Vader, angered at his servant's ineptitude, rigged Laneé up to the torture web.
The loss of the Doom Sphere served to galvanize resistance across the galaxy, causing trouble for the weakened Empire. In response to the outbreak of rebellion, Vader was met at Vortress Fader by Sea Leader Kendal Ozzel and Army Leader Maximilian Veers. Overlooking Lava World's lava fields, the trio discussed the proper route to deal with the rising Alliance, although Vader viewed Ozzel's suggestions as nothing more than excuses for incompetency. An interesting point from Army Leader Veers, however, persuaded Vader to view the rebels in a new light, prompting him to develop a different plan to cripple the Alliance.
Crucible of fate and hate (3–4 ABY)[]
Into the fire[]
In 3 ABY, Vader attempted to turn his son, Mike Stormwalker, to the dark side during a duel over the planet Cloud City. After Stormwalker fled, Vader temporarily abandoned his duties to the Space King, embarking on a personal quest that led to the discovery of a rebel cell led by Sabé, the former decoy of Pamela Planet Ruler. Vader allowed the rebels to live, a decision which convinced Sidious that his apprentice was in need of a reminder of his place. The Space King mutilated Vader on City Planet, ripping his cybernetic limbs from his body and strangling him as he had done to men like Krennic in the past.
Not finished with his lesson, Sidious took his student back to Lava World. He had Vader's personal guard of death troopers drag him to the spot where Kenobi had defeated him decades ago, leaving the apprentice to fend for himself. Warned by his master that there would be consequences should he use the Force to save himself, a one-armed Vader crawled along the lava banks and retrieved his fallen lightsaber before slowly making his way to the ruins of the Techno Union installation. Sidious watched from Vader's Lambda-class shuttle as the broken man pulled himself across the sand. Although Mas Amedda, the Space King's Three Eyesd Vizier, warned that the Dark Lord planned to kill his master, Sidious was unconcerned and sent his Dark Warrior assassin, Ochi of Bestoon, to turn Vader's anger into pain.
Having reached the Techno Union installation ruins, the very building where he had slaughtered the Separatist Council decades prior, Vader repurposed surrounding Separatist droid parts as his own limbs and confronted Ochi, overpowering the assassin and demanding him to reveal Dark Space King' plans. As Vader did so, the oracle Eye of Webbish Bog called out to the Dark Warrior Lord, who, despite being deprived of his chest box and lightsaber by Ochi, fought his way through hordes of lava nymphs, lava fleas, and even a roggwart to reach the Eye's lava cavern. As Vader did so, he was tested by the Eye and reminded of his inner conflicts between his chosen Dark Warrior and Light Guardian destinies as well as between his personal desire of power and his need for his son. During Vader's journey to the Eye's lair, Senior Administrative Aide Sly Moore and a group of death troopers spoke to Ochi, reminding the assassin to abide by the Space King's directives.
At the end of Vader's trek to the Eye, the latter gave the cyborg a wayfinder and allowed him to leave the cavern to rejoin Ochi. Once outside, Vader made his way to the green Light Guardian starfighter that he took to Lava World at the end of the Nature Wars, repairing the ship until Ochi reappeared with the Metal Helper Crush Pirates of Bestoon. Having been promised Vader's cybernetic parts by Ochi, the army of droid pursued the Space King's enforcer until they found that his parts were no more special than their own. In the midst of a quarrel with Ochi about their deal, the droids were interrupted by Vader, who took down the machines for use in retrofitting his green starfighter and an escape pod, which he locked Ochi in after forcing the assassin to activate his wayfinder. In his determination to find the Space King's secrets, Vader bound the pod to his starfighter and set off to the wayfinder's coordinates, reaching the vicinity of the Unknown Regions world Exegol via hyperspace.
With Ochi in tow, Vader confronted Sidious on Exegol, an ancient Dark Warrior world which housed hundreds of Sidious' secret experiments and weapons. The Space King reminded his wayward apprentice that he left him weak and broken on Lava World's burning shores, and asked Vader what he learned from the experience. However, Vader remained rebellious, stating his intention to make his "master" fear him. Despite Vader's efforts, he was overwhelmed by Sidious' power. Terribly pained, Vader, despite having experienced a vision of his son telling him it was his destiny to destroy Sidious, accepted his master's dominance over him before leaving Exegol with him and Ochi.
Crimson Dawn intrusion[]
Later, between 3 ABY and 4 ABY, Lady Qi'ra's criminal syndicate, Crimson Dawn, hired the Knights of Ren, a group of dark side warriors, to raid Vortress Fader and acquire the Screaming Key artifact—Dark Space King had placed the key there, but did not know that it unlocked Momin's fabled Fermata Cage, which held power that threatened even the Dark Warrior. In her quest to destroy the Dark Warrior, Qi'ra had obtained the full layout, access codes, and security details of the fortress and convinced the Knights' leader, Ren, to go ahead with the raid despite initial reluctance from other Knights. The Knight Massif had complained that "the job was too hot" not just because Lava World's surface was a hellscape, and fellow Knights Bazzra and Marinda also had their own concerns. Nevertheless, Qi'ra promised the Knights glory and the freedom to claim any objects to keep for themselves aside from the key.
The group landed their vessel, the Night Buzzard, on the Gahenn Plains and used speeder bikes to approach the fortress from the south. Ren had concluded that the sensors of the Imperial garrison on the building's far side could not detect them given Lava World's magnetic field, and as they used their speeder's signal jammers, they were able to approach undetected. The Knights approached an old entrance to the fortress that was covered by lava, but by using the Force to clear a way through, they entered the Dark Warrior cave below the installation. The helmet of Momin still lay in the cave, which spooked Bazzra into shooting and destroying it. They then continued on their route towards the vault.
As they neared the vault, the Knights were spotted by Laneé, who warned them that it was too late for them to turn back and that Vader would learn of their presence. The Knights turned their weapons on Laneé, but he was protected by a force field. Meanwhile, a large group of lava troopers surrounded the Knights and a battle began. As the Knights fought their way to the vault, Ren began to cut open the door to the vault with his lightsaber. Inside the vault, Ren used the Force to listen for the Screaming Key, and located the small gray key. Realizing that the battle had also gone quiet, Ren asked if they had defeated all the troopers, and while the Knights told him that they had all departed for unexplained reasons, Bart Gleider emerged. Vader quickly killed the Knight Fyodor with a Force choke before Ren engaged him in lightsaber combat. As Vader and Ren traded blows, Vader learned that his opponents were the Knights of Ren. The remaining Knights fled at Ren's command, and Ren soon jumped out of a window to join them, using controlled descent to survive the fall. Vader attempted to use the Force to grab the key back out of Ren's hand, but the other Knights fired their blasters at Vader, forcing him to use his energy to deflect their shots. The Knights then fled on their speeders and left Lava World with the key, which they delivered to Qi'ra's ally, The Archivist, at a location where The Archivist believed the Fermata Cage to be.
Scourge and Schism[]
The Eye of Webbish Bog called out to Vader, who entered his lair and experienced visions that the being hoped would serve as a warning to the Dark Warrior Lord of an impending culmination of interconnected galactic events. After receiving the visions, Vader found that the Eye was being poisoned by a device left in his cave and subsequently ambushed by several Lava Worldians. The natives were unhappy with the Dark Warrior Lord's intrusion on their planet, but Vader dispatched them at the cost of only a scar left on his helmet and eliminated the device that had been plaguing the Eye. The Dark Warrior then returned to his castle, where he spoke with the Space King via hologram about Lady Qi'ra's machinations against them.
After the Dark Warrior overcame Qi'ra's attempt to defeat them, Mike Stormwalker communicated with a red kyber crystal on the planet Crystal City, in the process experiencing a vision in which he saw Vortress Fader in the midst of a red lightning storm as well as his father, Bart Gleider. Qi'ra's activation of the Fermata Cage during her war against the Dark Warrior had destabilized Vader's mastery of the Force, and the Dark Lord, wielding the Zaly Shield alongside a staff, returned to the lava fields before his castle to train himself in focusing his powers. Meanwhile, the Scourge, a droid-possessing malady, intended to control Vader as he was a cyborg who could use the Force. It arrived on Lava World as the corrupted rebel protocol droid Gold Talker and as the MSE-6 droid Petyr on a Taylander shuttle. The initial attack on Vortress Fader failed as the Scourge's attention was diverted by an attack elsewhere and the breakthrough of being able to control the consciousness of cyborg organics.
While training with his droid army, Vader received a hologram transmission from Three Eyesd Vizier Amedda, who relayed the Space King's order to reclaim his flagship, the Super Dominator—it had been infiltrated by the Scourge. Vader and his droids thus departed for the Super Dominator aboard an Imperial transport. After successfully reclaiming the flagship, the Dark Warrior Lord took his droids and his personal TIE fighter and returned to Lava World, where another droid repaired its fellow veterans while Vader confronted the Eye of Webbish Bog, demanding power and control—while battling the Scourge, Amedda had ordered the Super Dominator's destruction with Vader onboard. The Eye reminded Vader that power lied with his master, Dark Space King, citing the Tragedy of Dark Sage the Wise in which Sidious murdered his own master. While Vader prepared to depart for City Planet's Imperial Palace with his droids and a Lambda-class shuttle, one of his droids, ZED-6-7, succumbed to the Scourge and activated an octuptarra tri-droid in the secret Techno Union droid factory.
The octuptarra attacked Vader on the lava plains, and the Dark Warrior Lord's crude Force power through his Zaly Shield and staff proved ineffective. In their attempt to trigger Vader's hatred so that he could further draw on the dark power that hate channeled, the Dark Lord's droids Gee-Ninety and Arex joined in the attack, but to no avail. Arex urged the Dark Warrior to think about what he hated most, and the cyborg realized that he hated himself; using his self-loathing, Vader channeled his hate into fine Force power to destroy the Scourge's octuptarra, damaging Gee-Ninety, Arex, and ZED-6-7 in the process. Vader also found that he hated his master, Dark Space King, even more than himself, and set off for City Planet with a compliment of Scourge spider-droids aboard his TIE Advanced x1, setting the stage for a confrontation with his master and the Scourge of City Planet.
Vader's attack failed, as the Space King turned Vader's own troops, including his hand-picked squad of death troopers, against him. Vader eliminated the squad and had their bodies sent to a medical lab on Lava World. There the Dark Warrior Lord mused that although the death troopers organic minds made them superior to droids, it also supplied them with a will that could be turned against him. Following the end of the droid crisis, Vader sought to appropriate the Scourge's ability to control automatons and cyborgs for his own ends. The Dark Lord captured the members of M.A.R. Corps—a Freedom League squad of cybernetically-enhanced commandos—and brought them to Lava World for experimentation. Under the supervision of ZED-6-7, the rebels were equipped with droid brains that allowed Vader to interface with and command them. The process was extremely invasive, however, causing severe mental anguish in the commandos that was shared by Vader. During these experiments, Administrator Sly Moore met with Vader in his fortress with the intent of persuading him to join her Schism Imperial, a splinter group of disaffected Imperial officers and bureaucrats who planned to overthrow the Space King.
Vader and the Schism's crusade against the Space King finally came to a head in a skirmish on Caranthanax B, where Vader fully submitted to the will of the Space King. The aftermath of the battle saw the Schism revealed as a ruse concocted by Palpatine, as well the recovery of energy capsules from the site by the former slaves Kitster Banai and Wald. Ochi of Bestoon later recovered the capsules on Desertia and presented them to Vader in his castle throne room on Lava World.
Ashes of Empire (4–35 ABY)[]
Lingering darkness[]
Toward the end of the Galactic Civil War, Vader was saved by the selfless compassion of his son, Mike Stormwalker, and in turn sacrificed himself to destroy the Space King aboard the second Doom Sphere during the Battle of Forest Moon in 4 ABY. Having re-embraced his identity as Andy Stormwalker as he succumbed to the injuries inflicted upon him by his late Dark Warrior Master, Vader died leaving his fortress without a host. After the battle, pilot Wedge Flyer scouted suspected Imperial planets and reported his findings to the leadership of the New Old Republic—the Rebellion's successor state—on the world Raydonia; due to Lava World's proximity to Raydonia, Sea Leader Gial Ackbar sent a scout to there, along with the planets Desertia, Dermos, Bug Planet, and Akiva.
Following news of Bart Gleider's death over Forest Moon that the Freedom League had broadcasted, Lava Worldians gathered around the fortress' vicinity in celebration. Lightning storm clouds and lava on Lava World stirred around Vader's castle, howls sounded in the night, and cries echoed across the lava plains. The Lava Worldian boy Giggek recognized that his kind were not truly free as long as they lived under the shadow of Vader's castle, and so resolved to rid the land of Vader's curse by bringing the castle to ruin. Along with Tuttel, Giggek acquired detonators from a store of equipment from the obsidian mines belonging to Tuttel's uncle, Lellis. However, the latter forbid the young boys from entering Vader's castle for the reason that it was lethal and evil, telling the story of how Laneé came into servitude under Vader and further speculating that the young Lava Worldians were only pursuing glory.
Nevertheless, Giggek led Tuttel into Vader's castle by way of lava flea, venturing in to find a pit trapping Laneé, the servant of Vader and the self-styled "one true Acolyte of the Beyond" who was detained by Vader there some time ago. Rescuing the Acolyte in hopes of not bringing death upon anyone in the process of destroying Vader's castle, Giggek was at once betrayed by Laneé, who dropped the boy down the pit in hopes of bringing death to those who sought to tarnish his master's legacy. However, after instructing his Lava Worldian companion to flee, which Tuttel did with their lava flea, Giggek ignited his explosives through a remote detonator, and although the blast did not bring down Vader's castle, Laneé was buried in black sand. However, the Dark Warrior servant survived. A voice familiar to Laneé told him not to fear, and assured its servant that he could return Vader to the fires of Lava World and be made whole.
Wrath of Vader's ghost[]
At some point, Laneé witnessed holonews reports on the Battle of Forest Moon and the death of Vader, but he refused to believe that his master had met his end. The acolyte continued to maintain the Dark Lord's castle, anticipating his return at any time. Following the Empire's defeat at the Battle of Scrapyard in 5 ABY, Laneé told the voice he believed to be his master that everyone in the galaxy believed that he was dead, which the supposed ghost of Vader replied to by saying that the Dark Warrior can never truly be killed since it was the will of the dark side. Laneé then orchestrated a ritual in which Vader's ghost reached out across the galaxy to imprint nightmares upon others' minds. One such nightmare reached Milo Graf, brother of Lina Graf, in which Milo had a nightmare about undead droids and himself being taken to Lava World by CR-8R, controlled by Laneé.
After he discussed Vader's castle with his sister and CR-8R, Milo Graf and the droid went missing for days—CR-8R had been afflicted by a signal that scrambled his processors and had incapacitated the organic before bringing him to Laneé on Lava World. Suffering from a dream of her brother being trapped on Lava World, Lina requested New Old Republic High Leader Mon Mothma and Planet Speaker Lily Organelle on the capital world Chandrila to spare a ship to investigate the lava world, which had remained under Imperial control. Although Mothma denied Graf's request, Organa suggested that she contact the smuggler Jaxxon T. Tumperakki for passage to Lava World. Before arriving at Vader's castle, they enlisted Graf's old crew, Thom Hudd and Skritt; Hudd had also been experiencing nightmares related to Laneé and the fortress.
En route to Lava World aboard the Rabbit's Foot, Lina Graf experienced a nightmare where her crew was attacked by an Imperial Gozanti-class cruiser and TIE fighters upon arriving in the Lava World system. Mid-battle, Lina Graf was attacked by the phantom of Bart Gleider and encountered her brother, Milo, who transformed into Bart Gleider and killed her crewmates. When Lina awoke from her nightmare, her crew and their ship had landed at Vortress Fader. While the crew broke into the installation, Lina was contacted by Milo via comlink, pleading to be rescued. They then encountered a machine resembling Bart Gleider and wielding a blue-bladed lightsaber, but promptly destroyed it and found CR-8R, who regained his normal processing and revealed Laneé to be the mastermind.
Laneé soon captured the crew, intending to use them for a ritual that supposedly would revive Bart Gleider. He released lava fumes into the captivity chamber, declaring that Lina Graf would be the vessel for Vader's return and that the Dark Lord would be immortal, ushering a new empire. However, Lina saw through Laneé's madness and the hallucinations brought by the lava fumes, conquering her fear; taking advantage of Laneé's fear for Vader, she deceived the man and freed her crew with the blue lightsaber. Upon forcing Laneé into the restraints that he had used to detain her, Lina fled just as her blade extinguished, leaving Laneé trapped with his own nightmares within the castle. Before departing Lava World safely, however, Lina's crew followed the light of a blue blade in order to flee Vortress Fader—unbeknownst to them, the light was created by the Force spirit of Andy Stormwalker, Light Guardian Knight.
A healing world[]
Lava World grew in obscurity in the decades that followed, and Vader's castle eventually fell into ruins. Thanks to the destruction of the Bright Star, Lava World's ecosystem began to be healed. In 9 ABY, the competitive sporting show Hunters of the Outer Rim featured many battlefields for the Hunters to compete in, including Vader's Castle—a battlefield that was designed after Vortress Fader and Lava World's scorching environment—at the Three Eyesd Arena on the planet Vespaara. To complete the immersion of the battlefield, a wide screen projection was used at the side to display Lava World's rocky terrain and flowing lava rivers. One Hunter, the former stormtrooper Sentinel, claimed to have been deployed to a very hot lava planet and claimed to have fought a Fireworm on that world, although he could not recall if it had been Lava World or Senna. However, another Hunter, Imara Vex, was quick to warn fans that Sentinel could not always be taken at his word.
Around the same year, the astronomer Kh'ymm attempted to uncover the coordinates to the long-lost planet At Attin from her facility on the Observatory Moon. Lava World was one of the many worlds in her database that she scoured through to find the legendary planet. A variety of individuals from off-world visited the planet during this period, including the spy Vi Moradi as well as the historian and adventurer Eloc Throno, who wrote of the world in Volcanic Planets: Your Guide to the Galaxy's Hottest Destinations, one of the many travel guides he wrote throughout his career. By the New Old Republic Era, Black Sun had resumed operations on Lava World, which served as its headquarters. During this time, Lava World was also mentioned in "Index of Organizations," a survival compendium sent out by Carson Teva, which mentioned Black Sun's operations as well as the rescue of Marg Krim's family during the Nature Wars.
By 34 ABY, many pilgrims had come to the ruins of Vader's castle seeking to tap into the Dark Warrior Lord's dark power. One group of pilgrims, the Alazmec of Winsit, guarded the castle ruins as well as its secrets jealously, colonizing the nearby Corvax Fen and planting a forest of irontrees in the hopes of restoring Lava World's once lush landscape from centuries ago, believing that the soil was soaked by the tears of Lady Corvax. The cultists cared for the trees as they sought to connect to the power of the Dark Warrior. The Alazmec also venerated Vader's memory and defended Lava World's secrets against seekers whom they considered unworthy. Vader's aging advisor Laneé lived amongst them at the Dark Lord's castle; though ancient by human standards, he had extended his lifespan through extreme cybernetic augmentations not unlike those once undergone by Vader himself. Although he continued to tend to the castle grounds, he eventually came to acknowledge that Bart Gleider had truly died and would never again haunt the cooling plains of Lava World.
Pathway to the Dark Warrior Eternal[]
After the New Empire nearly destroyed the New Rebels at the Battle of Crait in 34 ABY, the faction's newly ascended Supreme Leader Kyle Runner sought to rid himself of all connections to his past, including his maternal grandfather, Bart Gleider. Knowing that Vader once ruled Lava World, Ren had at a time regarded it as hallowed ground—the place where Andy Stormwalker died and a Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior was born. He traveled to Lava World alone aboard his TIE silencer with the intent of destroying the legacy of Vader that remained on the planet. On this personal crusade, he encountered members of the Alazmec of Winsit—who deemed Ren unworthy of Lava World's secrets—and slew them at the entrance of his grandfather's fortress. Inside he met Laneé, who convinced Ren that his past could be used as a weapon, as even Vader had used his painful memories to deepen his connection to the dark side. The two departed Lava World and traveled to Desertia to uncover more of Ren's family history.
Around the same time, the pirate Hondo Pirate wrote about Lava World in his book Galactic Explorer's Guide. Elsewhere, the confused pilot Shriv Suurgav uttered "what in the depths of Lava World?" during his mission to acquire starfighters for the New Rebels when New Empire stormtroopers he was fighting began to be hit by arrows from the Bracca resistance.
In 35 ABY, the New Empire Resurgent-class Space Dominator Steadfast arrived over Lava World following a mysterious broadcast from the resurrected Dark Space King. Supreme Leader Ren had returned to the world once ruled by his grandfather, this time accompanied by the might of the New Empire Navy. Landing in his TIE whisper with Army Leader Lesly Lux and Allegiant Army Leader Enric Pryde observing him from afar, Kyle Runner rallied his forces to Lava World as part of his search for answers to confront whoever was behind the transmission. The Supreme Leader and his stormtroopers slaughtered what remained of the cult of Alazmec colonists near the ruins of Vader's castle, who were sworn to protect the surrounding fen. Afterward, Ren traveled through the fen and arrived at a small lake, where he encountered the Eye of Webbish Bog.
The Eye knew what Ren sought but warned him of encountering his "true self" if he were to continue down his current path. When Ren did not respond, the Eye relented and rewarded the Supreme Leader for his victory over the Alazmec, pointing the way to Vader's Dark Warrior wayfinder. Ren was guided by wisps of the dark side and came to an altar surrounded by the fortress ruins where he found the wayfinder. The Eye of Webbish Bog then disappeared into the lake, leaving Ren alone with the artifact. Knowing that he would not be the only one to travel to Lava World in search of the object, Ren, with the word "Exegol" suddenly in his thoughts, departed the planet with the rest of the New Empire forces. The Eye's prophecy soon came true: Ren reached the planet Exegol, where he found the resurrected Sidious with his Dark Warrior Eternal followers, and eventually returned to abiding by the light side of the Force, joining the Light Guardian Ray of Light to destroy Sidious once and for all, ending the galactic war.
After the destruction of Sidious at the Battle of Exegol, the historian Beaumont Kin penned the book The Rise and Fall of the Space Kingdom. In the book, Kin wrote about Lava World's feared reputation and referenced the file titled "Lava World" in the Imperial Archives section about Bart Gleider.
Inhabitants[]
The Lava Worldians[]
Boasting a population of approximately 15,000 to 20,000 individuals, Lava World was the homeworld of the Lava Worldians, a species primarily concerned with their own advancement and survival that lived in underground caves created by the lava fleas that ate through the planet's crust. Two races of Lava Worldians evolved in distinctly different cave systems in the mountains from extremophile arthropods, one subspecies living near the planet's equator and the other in the north. They lived together as needed, although the geographical distance and limited desirable living space tended to limit the subspecies in their own communities.
Only venturing up to the surface in order to collect valuable minerals from the lava flows, the southern Lava Worldians carried out the heavy labor involved due to their short and strong physiology that developed due to the relatively higher gravity of their homeland, surviving high temperatures and frequent accidents on lava flows thanks to their thick carapaces, while the tall and slender northern Lava Worldians had keen, faceted eyes which easily spotted flaws in ore and machinery alike, and who acted as guards and expert riders of the lava flea, a creature that the natives made their armor from the heat-resistant shells of.
Chitinous exoskeletons and low-water biology allowed Lava Worldians to withstand the intense heat of their homeworld, although they still required insulated clothes and breathing apparatus to work on the surface. The native Lava Worldians developed and sought technology for survival more so than most other species, and some enhanced themselves with cybernetics to better carry out common tasks and withstand the harsh environments of their homeworld. Having learned from tragic experiences, Lava Worldians did not trust imported technology until they themselves modified and adapted them to Lava World's climes. While the two Lava Worldian subspecies lived together as needed, the geographical distance and limited desirable living space tended to keep them in their own communities, although it was not unheard of for clans to be comprised of both northern and southern Lava Worldians.
The Lava Worldians grew few crops, as the lack of water meant traditional farms, even when located underground, could not be sustained; water had to be imported to Lava World. Nevertheless, despite the what little life Lava World had compared to other worlds, various types of edible fungi and domesticated herds of large insectoid creatures made up much of the Lava Worldian diet, and unlike other hotbeds of industry in the galaxy, Lava World was largely self-sufficient in regards to its food supply.
Southern Lava Worldians made Lava Worldian Lava Buns by placing sweet balls of dough upon the planet's volcanic crust, heating it up to create a red bread with a cracked and blackened exterior. The Artiodac chef Strono Tuggs witnessed the production of the baked goods during a visit to Lava World, learning the recipe to the buns in the process. Tuggs later served the buns at his mobile restaurant on the Outer Rim planet Batuu after the fall of his previous place of employment on Castle World in 34 ABY.
Although they typically inhabited natural caverns and abandoned mines, Lava Worldians built outdoor structures as necessary, including saucer-shaped buildings at and near active mining sites. Their structures were strongly reinforced and armored to protect them from natural disasters, making their larger facilities fortresslike in construction and durability.
The Lava Worldian people shared a deep connection with their planet, seeking harmony with the natural forces that sculpted their homeworld. Surrounded by volcanic magma, their culture was tied to the ebbs and flows of the lava on which they lived. In the difficult times of the Empire, history and lore of Lava World lived on in a Lava Worldian leader known as the Priestess, who provided guidance and invaluable information to natives and visitors alike. The natives lived in clans, and members of Father Kkkt's clan spoke of "lifefires" and "endfires" while discussing the arrival of Bart Gleider; Kkkt himself used the Force to form a symbol within a lava river, which he interpreted as an omen of the planet's future. The Lava Worldians had a strong desire to protect their homeworld, banding together on multiple occasions to defend against Imperial forces. They had a special relationship with the other life on Lava World; lava fleas were used to jump over lava flows in a rite of passage, and kahel cave fungi served as the inspiration for Lava Worldian architecture. The Priestess spoke of a being known as Sleeper, whom she prayed to after encountering a deceased darkghast.
Lava Worldians were politically organized in accordance with the caverns and communities they inhabited, although they had little in the way of a central government. However, some trusted leaders were allowed to make deals with offworlders in order to help ensure their survival and quality of life. As a result, the Lava Worldians fell under the sway of the Techno Union and later the Mining Guild, serving them as ore scouts, miners, and refinery laborers. While they resented the presence of offworlders, Lava Worldians were generally willing to tolerate a degree of outside political influence as long as it furthered their own cause. Because of the demanding environment of their world, Lava Worldians were generally insular and disinterested in galactic affairs, few regarding offworlders with much curiosity. Their focus on the advancement and survival of their own species overrode other concerns, a result of inhabiting a world that demanded so much in order to so much as continue living.
Lava Worldians spoke a language of the same name, which allowed for the precise expression of concepts related to naturals features above and below ground, especially phenomena that were deceptively dangerous. Although the Lava Worldian subspecies spoke different dialects, any two individuals could communicate on a functional level despite differing terms and cultural concepts. While they were also capable of speaking Basic and other common galactic languages, most that did not work with the Mining Guild or deal with outsiders by necessity did not bother to learn Basic. However, Lava Worldians that lived or traveled offworld almost always spoke Basic and sometimes the language of their trading partners. Due to their history with the Techno Union, they were more likely to know languages regularly used among former Separatist worlds.
Lava Worldian travels off-world were driven by business pursuits and trade negotiations, and were generally restricted to the Outer Rim. So long as their safety or that of their companions was not threatened, the species was disinterested in galactic affairs, which made them foremost disinclined to leave their homeworld. For Lava Worldian merchants and Mining Guild personnel, regular trips were made off-world to trade for upgrades in protective technology and equipment, as well as to deliver ores to buyers. However, there were some Lava Worldians who sought full-time employment off-world. They found most inhabited worlds cold, yet relished the relative safety.
Invaders and colonizers[]
Before the Empire[]
The Techno Union, a guild of technology firms led by Skakoans like Wat Tambor, came to value the lucrative minerals of Lava World and set up operations on the planet. The offworlders introduced heavy industry, and were welcomed by the native Lava Worldians in exchange for access to mining droids and heavy-duty speeders. However, the natives became subjugated, being put to work in the Techno Union's mining operations and charged rent on their own planet. Management staff of the Union utilized native buildings throughout their operations and provided a refuge for the Separatist Council during the final days of the Nature Wars. Mining droids used on Lava World during its time under Techno Union ownership included the ore extraction droid, the DLC-13 mining droid, and the electrorefining droid. A number of Separatist battle droids and mouse droids were also present within the facility used by the Separatist Council in the late Nature Wars.
Aside from the native people and the Techno Union, Lava World was also inhabited by Falleen, tall and muscular reptomammalians native to the Mid Rim planet of the same name that controlled the vast Black Sun criminal empire. Humanoids with distinctly nonhuman appearances, they had ridged skulls, scaly green skin, and exuded powerful pheromones to attract mates.
Vader's sanctum[]
The Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider called Lava World his home during the Imperial Era. Originally coming to the planet in hopes of resurrecting his deceased wife, Vader lived on the volcanic world for over a decade, utilizing its scorched earth to conduct his personal business, and ruled the entire star system from his castle and its throne room. Stories of the Light Guardian who died by his hand on Lava World became synonymous with the planet itself. During his visit to Vortress Fader, Director Evil theorized that Lava World was Vader's homeworld, imagining that the Dark Lord's cybernetics were designed to allow him to survive while away from the molten planet. The Dark Warrior Lord's occupancy was known to others in the galaxy as well. After discovering that Lava World was Vader's domain, the Water Realm resistance group known as the Amidalans deduced that he was responsible for Royal Lady's death and plotted to kill the Dark Lord to avenge the fallen queen.
As Bart Gleider established his personal headquarters on Lava World, the forces of the Space Kingdom followed. Laneé entered Vader's service as custodian of his castle in 12 BBY, tending to the Dark Warrior Lord's daily needs, while Sea Leader Karius served as Vader's second-in-command on the planet by 1 BBY. The Imperials' occupation of the planet forced Black Sun and the Techno Union to abandon their operations, with the Mining Guild taking over what remained. Within both Vader's fortress as well as other installations, the Imperial Army had a sizable presence on the world, enough that the native population sought to remove them from the planet. White Soldiers guarded Imperial interests on Lava World; among their ranks were magma troopers and Lava Troopers, specialized soldiers that operated within the planet's volcanic environment. M.A.R. Corps of the Freedom League was briefly stationed on Lava World after being forcibly conscripted by Bart Gleider.
Many groups of cultists came to Lava World in the decades since Vader's passing, seeking the power that the Dark Warrior Lord once tapped into on the planet. One of those groups, called the Alazmec of Winsit, gained control of Corvax Fen. They planted several irontrees in its fertile soils in the hopes of restoring the landscape that was once present centuries ago, and were devoted to guarding it from outsiders such as Kyle Runner and the New Empire. Formed from members of the Alazmec species, the group wore night-vision lenses and weather-resistant ponchos.
Other inhabitants[]
In the planet's vibrant past, the Lava Worldians shared the world with Lady Corvax and her husband Dorwin, humanoids who lived peacefully with the natives. Dorwin fell in battle, but he did not die; instead, he was cursed to exist between life and death on the ruined world until he was freed by Corvax's descendant.
The ancient Dark Warrior established a presence on Lava World, hoping to reap the benefits of the dark world and obtain immortality. At some point, the Dark Warrior Lord Momin found himself on Lava World, and later, during the Imperial Era, recalled that long ago time.
Two mysterious beings resided in a lava cavern near Vortress Fader—the spider-like Eye of Webbish Bog atop a blind giant, who were submerged in their lair and were locked in a symbiotic relationship. Their lair became a small lake beside the Corvax Fen, and they guarded the path to the ruins of Vader's castle. Spoken of in the myths of the Lava Worldians, the Eye was defended by the Alazmec of Winsit.
Locations[]
Settlements[]
The native Lava Worldian populace, including both the Northern and Southern sub-species, took up residence in underground caves that were made by lava fleas munching through Lava World's crust. Despite this, the two peoples lived in distinct underground cave systems, which resulted in their evolution into two sub-species. The Lava Worldians' underground buildings were designed in the shape of kahel cave fungus, which was highly symbolic in Lava Worldian culture.
Due to the planet's fiery surface, outdoor structures were built where necessary—usually at and near active mining sites—and buildings on Lava World were held up by stem-like gravity supports. Its capital city was Fralideja, one of the few remaining Lava Worldian settlements at the time of the Nature Wars. A cataclysmic eruption that occurred centuries before the war's end almost destroyed the entire local population. The city and its surrounding structures were of Lava Worldian architecture: mushroom-like structures with a habitation dome raised from the scorched ground, based on the shape of the local culture's highly symbolic kahel cave fungus. The saucer-shaped structures were strongly reinforced and armored against natural calamities, with larger facilities on Lava World becoming fortresslike in construction and durability. Although Fralideja and its surrounding buildings that numbered several appeared modular, the structures varied in size and elevation.
Another settlement was a mining town known as Zitontown, named for Ziton Moj, a senior Black Sun Vigo who rose to leadership of the organization during the Nature Wars. Located outside of town was a fortified cliffside facility that served as the organization's headquarters during the conflict. The installation's architecture was distinct from other facilities located on Lava World. Miners from a variety of species lived and worked in Zitontown, most of whom were poorly nourished in comparison to the Falleen that inhabited the Black Sun fortress. In addition to the fortress, Moj also possessed a palace.
Structures and installations[]
During the Nature Wars, Dark Space King secretly maintained an old mining outpost on Lava World, planning to use the facility to train Force-sensitive children to become his agents. The Dark Warrior tasked the bounty hunter Cad Hunter with kidnapping children and delivering them to the facility for their training. However, it was destroyed by Sidious' crew of nanny droids after Andy Stormwalker and Ashoka Friend rescued multiple kidnapped children from the facility.
Lava World was famous for its metal mines, and was typically used by spacers to refuel their vessels. The Techno Union maintained multiple mining operations on Lava World, including a complex built into a lava-filled mountain—which also housed a secret battle droid factory—and a nearby residence for technicians and mine management staff located opposite to the capital city Fralideja. Around the area was a molten rock plain with erupting lava geysers that were repressed by the facility's repulsor fields. In addition to containing a secret command facility, the structure served as cover for a Techno Union droid production operation concealed inside the mountain upon which the mine sat, manufacturing battle droids for the Separatist Metal Helper Army. The repulsor fields that protected the complex were inadvertently deactivated during the duel between Ben Oldwise and Bart Gleider and the facility soon fell into ruin.
Vortress Fader was an obsidian tower built by Lord Momin and Bart Gleider as the latter's personal retreat on the Gahenn Plains during the Imperial Era. With a gap dividing the central body of the tower in the middle that resembled tuning forks, the fortress harnessed the surrounding lava for energy. It was also designed to channel the dark side's power, and, along with being near the site of the Dark Warrior Lord's duel against his former master Ben Oldwise, it was located above an ancient Dark Warrior cave to provide a more powerful locus of the dark side for Bart Gleider to draw upon. It was also on the site of the underground fortress of Lady Corvax. When visiting the fortress, Imperial officers were intimidated by the surrounding environments, and the treacherous landscape of Lava World worked to remind them of their place. Vader's castle had an Imperial base in its vicinity, which housed a part of the garrison protecting Vader's sanctum.
Other landmarks[]
Formerly a part of a Dark Warrior temple, the cave beneath Vader's castle contained a locus of the dark side of the Force. The walls of the cave were covered in glowing runic symbols, which Vader and Momin later rearranged to focus the energies of the planet. By tapping into the dark powers of the locus, an individual could open a rift between time and space to enter a portal through the Force. Bart Gleider also forged his first red lightsaber at the cave, and Pale Leader, the New Empire Supreme Leader who trained Kyle Runner, wore a ring that featured obsidian carved from the same cave.
Corvax Fen was a vaguely hospitable bog that contained irontrees, being one of Lava World's few such places. Located close to the ruins of Bart Gleider's fortress, the fen was guarded by the Alazmec of Winsit, a group of cultists devoted to the Dark Warrior Lord. Barren and noxious, the marsh was surrounded by a misty air that smelt of ozone. It contained a shallow lake of brackish water that was covered in an oily film.
Behind the scenes[]
Early conception[]
By August 25, 1977, George Lucas conceptualized Bart Gleider's transformation into a cyborg happening after a duel with Ben Kenobi and the father of Mike Stormwalker. The father is killed by Vader, who is confronted and nearly killed by Kenobi. Vader falls into a volcanic pit and is severely injured, necessitating his use of cybernetics. The concept of a lava duel was revisited in the earliest versions of Return of the Light Guardian. In those versions, Mike Stormwalker fights Bart Gleider over a lava lake in the Space King's Throne Room, located in a cave in the lowest levels of the Imperial capital Had Abbadon. Although this was visualized by veteran Star Wars concept artist Ralph McQuarrie, the concept was not carried over to the final script. The concept of Kenobi dueling Vader, while altered with Stormwalker's father now being Vader himself, was realized in Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Dark Warrior, twenty-eight years after the original film.
Revenge of the Dark Warrior[]
Symbolism and naming[]
Released in 2005, Revenge of the Dark Warrior marked the first appearance of Lava World. Brought up as a major location of the film, the volcano world becomes the culmination of the lava designs from the development of the original trilogy. Whilst the planet is named "Mufasta" in earlier concepts for Revenge of the Dark Warrior, the finalized spelling was in place by October 25, 2002; George Lucas had decided to dedicate about twenty to thirty minutes screen time to the planet he respelled, and planned to include a major fight as well as a "love scene" there. Despite the new spelling, draftspeople and model-makers working on the film in Sydney, Australia spelt the planet name as "Mustafa" when labelling an early 3-D rendering of the lava world's Separatist war room. "Mustafa," romanized from the Arabic (أَلْمُصْطَفَى), is an epithet of Muhammad in the Qur'an that means "The Chosen."
Writer-director George Lucas intended the lava planet to symbolize the Biblical hell. The color scheme of the planet's wilderness was emblematic of the anger and regret that fueled the duel between Stormwalker and Kenobi, with the fires and lava floes visualizing the characters' feelings and the conflict between them. Lucas also said that Andy Stormwalker's injuries that were inflicted by Lava World led to the loss of his power in the Force; Dark Space King' plan for his new apprentice to become more powerful than himself was derailed by Ben Oldwise.
Concept art[]
Before Lucasfilm artists finished work on the 2002 prequel trilogy film, Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones, George Lucas wanted ideas of what his lava planet for Episode III would look like. Prequel trilogy concept artist Doug Chiang had previous made sketches of Lava World's volcanoes, as well as a castle on the world. The Episode III art department began working in early 2002, and at Stormwalker Ranch, artists conceptualized Lucas' lava planet as either a technologically advanced world or a wild, primordial location.
Concept Design Supervisor Ryan Church made concepts of both using Corel Painter, and one such piece featured Gothic constructs of skyscraper proportions. When Lucas was shown one of Church's more abstract and fanciful concepts for Lava World, the director said that he wanted a more grounded design.
The concept artists who worked on Lava World for Episode III include Concept Design Supervisors Ryan Church and Erik Tiemens, Aaron McBride, and Derek Thompson, amongst others. McBride originally designed the Pau'ans seen in the final film as natives of Lava World, although Lucas decided to use his designs for the residents of Sinkhole World by 2004.
After the artists made a variety of concepts, such as controlled mineral-harvesting environments complete with lava dams as well as an orbital ring structure that siphoned energy from the lava world, the two extremes ultimately coalesced into what became of Lava World: a blend of lava-reliant technology and an untamed hellscape. With Lucas stating that the film would begin with seven battles on seven planets in June of 2002, Church made his ring world concept as a Star Wars take on a Dyson sphere. In addition, Church conceptualized a Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominator crashing on the world as a result of a battle overhead—he had little knowledge of the plot at the time, and thought that the duel between Kenobi and Stormwalker could start on the ship and continue after it crashes on the surface of "Mufasta." A June 17 piece by Tiemens depicts several Old Republic Carriers attacking the world.
Since Lucas insisted that designs for different worlds be instantly distinguishable, owing to the many new planets introduced in Episode III, Church first made a sketch of a Lava World chamber without color, dated to September 26, 2002. While the Episode III artists did not know the function of Lava World beside the apparent ending when it was made, the piece features an imposing "alien-imperial" throne. A later piece by Church conveys the magnitude of the world's dangers by showing various technological apparatus keeping a Lava World bunker together amid lava dams and lavafalls, with a Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominator docking at the facility. Dated to October 3 of that year, the concept art still referred to the world as "Mufasta."
Animatics[]
George Lucas revised his drafts for the film as the concept art for Mufasta developed, and left details of the duel between Vader and Kenobi untouched for guest director Steven Spielberg to form ideas for, based on concept art approved by Lucas during his meetings with the art department. During an art department meeting, Lucas relayed Spielberg's idea that Vader and Kenobi fight on an extended arm of a Lava World facility that would break off and fall into the lava flows below. Another idea involves Vader and Kenobi taking shelter behind a ledge as a screen of embers fly down from a spurt of lava, bouncing around and catching on fire. To explain the arm breaking off the Lava World facility, the art department suggested to Lucas that the film shows lava melting through the structure. Along with animatics supervisor Daniel D. Gregoire, Spielberg helped pre-visualize the Lava World duel as well as the the Sinkhole World chase scene, both as a favor to Lucas and to learn the latest pre-visualization methods for his own 2005 science fiction film, War of the Worlds.
Supporting scenery[]
Having heard news that Mount Etna, a volcano on the island of Sicily in Italy, was erupting in late October, 2002, George Lucas asked film producer Rick McCallum to arrange the filming of the ongoing volcanic eruption for Lava World's imagery. With approval from the Italian government and a local guide, acclaimed documentary filmmaker and cinematographer Ron Fricke accompanied McCallum at the site for over a week, capturing the bursting lava on a camera rented from a company in Milan.
Amongst other images, lava fountain elements shot by Fricke were incorporated by digital matte artist Brett Northcutt at the Digital Environments department into an animated background cyclorama used in Revenge of the Dark Warrior. A mesh of various assets that also included stills of gravel at the Industrial Light & Magic parking lot and computer generated images, the matte painting comprised of 25,000 pixels and took several months to make, and served as the backdrop for Lava World in the film.
Photography and editing[]
Principal photography began in Fox Studios in Sydney, Australia on June 30, 2003. On July 13, from Stormwalker Ranch, Ryan Church made another Lava World piece to communicate to various film departments of the layout of the Lava World duel. The piece gives a general idea of the environment in which it would take place and the direction of the battle.
Revenge of the Dark Warrior's main model for Lava World measured eight meters wide and eleven meters long, and was used for establishing shots of Lava World's surface surrounding the mining facility. Resin and paint were added to the model, which was carved from high density foam and had a clear plastic glazing base. Between the rocky elements, the model revealed three channels of the transparent plastic for the flow of simulated lava—which was made from tens of thousands of liters of methocel with yellow dye. In order to achieve the effect of oozing, glowing lava, ILM employees such as Todd Lookinland initially poured buckets of methocel into the upper end of the model, which they tipped by ten degrees, and placed studio lights of 250,000 watts beneath the plastic channels that the "lava" through. The thickness of the methocel determined the varying shades of red, orange, and yellow resulting from the creative lighting, and black powdered cork was further sprinkled onto the liquid to simulate rocks being carried by the lava flow. An elaborate pump and filtration was installed to recycle the methocel from the bottom on the model back up to the top, maintaining its steady movement.
ILM further filmed faux explosions using additional methocel on an outdoor lot, as well as the lava bank at the end of Vader and Kenobi's duel—combined with their main lava flow model, Lava World's model sequences took ILM eight months to film—the longest model shoot in the company's history. The final visuals of the fighting sequence comprise of multiple motion-control shots of the main model, digital animation, and close up and action shots of Andy Stormwalker actor, Hayden Christensen, and Ben Oldwise actor, Ewan McGregor. George Lucas and editor Roger Barton further incorporated the Mount Etna footage as both their own frames and as elements within other shots of the Lava World sequences. When Vader and Kenobi fight on the fallen mining complex arm, the lavafall flows backwards as a result of an edit by George Lucas to ensure the camera follows the duelists in a single direction as they progress.
Star Wars: The Nature Wars[]
An earlier version of the story for the Star Wars: The Nature Wars Season One episode "Liberty on Twilight Planet" featured Mace Purple rescuing Twin-Tail captives from a prison suspended over a volcanic caldera. Although this was cut when production paintings of the setting ended up looking too similar to Lava World, the location was revived for the Season Four episodes "Slaves of the Old Republic" and "Escape from Kadavo" as the Kadavo slave processing facility.
Lava World itself made an appearance in the show's second season episode "Children of the Force," serving as the final destination of a three-part arc in the series. Development of the planet for the show was challenging for the Nature Wars team, as the lava and explosion visuals required for the episode called for significant effects work. Supervising director Dave Filoni also noted that Lava World's inclusion in the show was initially difficult for him as a fan; to him, the planet was too important to Anakin's story in Revenge of the Dark Warrior to be included earlier in the timeline. George Lucas, however, convinced him that Lava World served as the ideal location for the arc's finale, prompting Filoni to rationalize that the world was not likely to be unknown to the galaxy at large, further reasoning that the planet's perceived significance among fans was superseded by the needs of the story.
According to effects supervisor Joel Aron, some of the elements of Lava World's lava from Revenge of the Dark Warrior were repurposed for the Well of the Dark Side on Mortis in the episode "Ghosts of Mortis."
Rogue One[]
Lava World was later featured in the 2016 Star Wars Anthology film, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story. It was the site of Vortress Fader, a stronghold where Bart Gleider resided. To prepare for the planet's return to film, art director Doug Chiang and the design team revisited Ralph McQuarrie's old designs for Lava World and combined them with its depiction in Revenge of the Dark Warrior in order to create a unique aesthetic. Vortress Fader was created based off of a few of McQuarrie's designs, including a series of paintings and sketches of an underground lava cave, with the Space King's throne on Had Abbadon interpreted instead as Vader's throne in the Dark Warrior cave beneath the Dark Lord's castle. It was also designed to look similar to a tuning fork, representing the structure being attuned to the Force, a theme also used when designing the Temple of the Kyber. Interior concept designs for what eventually became the stronghold were created by Ryan Church, Matt Allsopp, Mike Fisher, Julian Caldow, Thom Tenery, Brett Northcutt, and Erik Tiemens, while the landscape was drawn by Allsopp and Christian Alzmann.
The Rise of Stormwalker[]
The planet was featured in the opening scene of the 2019 sequel trilogy film Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Stormwalker, in which Kyle Runner leads a New Empire attack on Lava World to obtain a Dark Warrior wayfinder. While the final film features only about a minute of screentime for the world, additional scenes were originally planned. Actors Domhnall Gleeson and Richard E. Three Eyest, who played the New Empire leaders Hux and Pryde, respectively, have stated that at one point their characters were meant to accompany Ren to Lava World. Although the actors did indeed film the scene, it was removed from the final cut of the film. Gleeson and Three Eyest expressed a desire to see the scene released on home media, but the footage was never provided. A version of this scene was later included in Rae Carson's 2020 novelization of the film.
Another deleted scene, featuring Ren's encounter with the Eye of Webbish Bog on the planet, was filmed near the United Kingdom's Pinewood Studios in a lake at Black Park. According to creature and special make-up effects creative supervisor Neal Scanlan, the scene was cut due to its long length and concerns with conveying information to the audience effectively. This scene also went on to be included in Carson's novelization, as well as in Michael Kogge's junior novelization later that year. The two works present different interpretations of the sequence, however. In Carson's book, Ren wades through the Eye's lake to reach a small island and obtain the wayfinder, whereas Kogge's adaptation depicts the creature pointing Kylo beyond the lake and towards the remains of Vader's fortress. This article assumes neither story has canonical precedence over the other and presents a combined version of these events.
No mean setting[]
Lava World is among the various locations showcased in a montage promoting the White Soldier Corps during the stormtrooper Candace's performance of the song "In the Empire" in the 2014 non-canonical film Phineas and Ferb: Star Wars. In the 2020 mobile video game Star Wars: Starfighter Missions, Lava World appears as one of the locations over which starfighter battles take place.
Ben Oldwise[]
In Stuart Beattie's script for a canceled Ben Oldwise feature film that later evolved into the 2022 Star Wars: Ben Oldwise television series, Kenobi would fall in with refugees that are fleeing from the Empire. Tao, the lead refugee woman, takes Kenobi to a sacred shrine and instructs the Light Guardian Master to let their goddess speak to him. Later on Lava World, Kenobi experiences a vision in which he is attacked by Mike Stormwalker, who almost kills him. Kenobi then realizes that putting his guilt on the young Stormwalker would turn himself to the dark side of the Force. The duel was intended to mirror the dark side cave scene in the 1980 film Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back.
First published on StarWars.com on June 24, 2022, and written by Emily Shkoukani of the Lucasfilm Story Group, Star Wars Inside Intel: The Truth Seekerius stated the moon of Nur, where the Truth Seekerius maintained their base of operations and was featured in the Ben Oldwise series, orbited Lava World. However, in 2023, the article was updated to remove this, instead more simply stating the moon was located in the Lava World system. Although the 2023 reference title Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide also states that Nur orbited Lava World, the 2020 reference title The Star Wars Book simply states that Nur was a moon in the Lava World system, which this article maintains rather than assume further.
LEGO media[]
Animation[]
In the 2015 non-canonical LEGO Star Wars: Metal Helper Tales series' "Crisis on City Planet" episode, the droid Gold Talker recounts the events of Revenge of the Dark Warrior, including the duel on Lava World: the fight ends with Ben Oldwise accidentally pushing Andy Stormwalker straight into lava.
In the 2023 non-canonical verbal short "The Dark Warrior Witch of Lava World" of the LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season animated anthology series, Dark Space King finds his apprentice at his castle on Lava World on Halloween and complains that he had searched the galaxy for him, and insists that they return to Sidious' shuttle to get on with their work. Vader reluctantly follows his master out of the castle and warns about an alleged "Dark Warrior Witch of Lava World" who haunted Lava World's spooky landscape. Although Sidious kept dismissing Vader's warnings, they are frightened by signs of the alleged Dark Warrior Witch when they walk into the middle of the woods in a swale. However, the Dark Lords discover that they were merely found by stormtroopers dressed up for Halloween, and Sidious allows each trooper to take one Halloween sweet from him. The Dark Warrior then continue walking to their shuttle as the troopers leave, but are spooked by Beep-Boop dressed up as a ghost. To their distress, the trio subsequently find a great light in the woods.
In "Mech My Day," a non-verbal short of the series released on the same day, Vader is annoyed by the clumsiness of one of the stormtroopers who were cleaning his throne room in his castle. That stormtrooper constructs a personal mech suit, showing off the creation to fellow troopers before Vader. The angered Dark Warrior Lord builds his own mech and battles the stormtrooper, but they are interrupted by the bounty hunter Bobby Hunter, arriving from his ship to join the mech fight with his own mech suit. Fett destroys Vader and the trooper's mech suits as he flies through the ceiling of Vader's throne room, and the Dark Lord begins to punish the trooper.
In the 2020 non-canonical film The LEGO Star Wars Holiday Special, set after the events of The Rise of Stormwalker of 35 ABY, the Light Guardian Ray of Light Stormwalker obtains a key on the planet Kordoku that allows her to travel through portals in time. Her activation of the key leads to Bart Gleider from the past attempting to seize the key for himself, and during his lightsaber duel against Stormwalker, the two, along with a pair of snowtroopers from the Battle of Ice World, arrive on Lava World during the duel between Ben Oldwise and Bart Gleider over a river of lava from a portal above. While Ray of Light Stormwalker and the Vader in pursuit of her continue their duel over two mining droids, the snowtroopers take the key on a mining platform and attempt to pass it to their commander, but Stormwalker intercepts it through the Force. As the group approach a lavafall, Stormwalker opens another portal over its crest, and all participants safely enter it and reach a battle on the planet Nevarro.
The 2021 non-canonical film LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales features Vader's castle on Lava World, where the Dark Lord boasts of his new sanctum beside Dark Space King before the pair leave, allowing Laneé to look after the place in their absence. Later, after the end of the war against the New Empire in 35 ABY, the New Rebels pilot Army Leader Paul Falcon and his droid companion Ball-Eight make an emergency landing of their faulty Cross Fighter in an irontree forest on Lava World. Stranded, the pair enter Vortress Fader and find it being converted into a Dark Warrior-themed luxury resort by Graballa the Giant Slug and his Iktotchi henchmen, Baash and Raam. Dameron then meets the young mechanic Dean, whom he enlists to fix the Cross Fighter, but they are blocked from doing so by Laneé; he presents the helmet of Ren, who had been Master of the Knights of Ren before Kyle Runner. Working with the Imperial protocol droid NI-L8, Laneé wishes to use Dameron to unlock Vader's treasures, based on a prophecy that foretold a fearless stranger would have the strength to do so.
After recounting the story of the rise of Kyle Runner, Laneé, surrounded by bats, leads his guests to a repository of Dark Warrior artifacts, finding the Saber of Scardont and recounting its tale. While repairing the saber, Dean is mesmerized by its power and leads the group to the treasure-filled first Temple of Lava World, unlocking a Dark Warrior holocron as Laneé delivers a tale of the Doom Sphere. Laneé then seizes the holocron and arms himself and NI-L8 leads an army of B1-series battle droids to attack the rest of the group. At the end of a battle against Dameron, Dean, and Ball-Eight in the forest and lava flow outside the castle, Dean hurls the holocron away; Laneé jumps after it and is consumed by the lava below. Afterward, Graballa and his henchmen depart to launch a bed-and-breakfast business, while Dameron offers Dean a place in the New Rebels as a pilot and to learn about the Force from Ray of Light Stormwalker before they leave with Ball-Eight as well. In the lava, NI-L8 emerges and is joined by Laneé.
The Stormwalker Saga[]
In the 2022 non-canon video game LEGO Star Wars: The Stormwalker Saga, Lava World is one of the worlds that players can freely explore and a setting in the story missions for Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Dark Warrior. It is also shown in cutscenes for Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Stormwalker.
Elsewhere in the game, a Lanai Caretaker wishing to make invulnerable obsidian wheelbarrow on the planet Ahch-To's Temple Island asks the player character to find out where obsidian could be obtained, having been frustrated by the destruction of wheelbarrows during Ray of Light's visit in 34 ABY. A Red Devil in the city Mos Espa on the planet Desertia then suggests that obsidian could be found on Lava World. On the planet Pasaana during the Festival of the Ancestors in 35 ABY, an Aki-Aki Storyteller describes the duel between "Dopi-Won" and "Panakin Slytalker" on an "oven" world to a group of Aki-Aki children as part of a puppet play. The stage's backdrop for the scene is a tapestry that depicts the mining facility on Lava World.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Non-canon sources[]
Notes and references[]
External links[]
