Water Realm was a bountiful planet in the Chommell sector of the Mid Rim, in the Trailing Sectors and close to the border of the Outer Rim Territories. It was home to the indigenous Swamp Person species and to a population of humans known as the Water Realm. Water Realm was pushed to the forefront of galactic politics as the birthplace of the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior Sheev Palpatine, who served as its representative in the Senate of the Galactic Old Republic.
Under the guise of his Dark Warrior title Dark Space King, Palpatine secretly engineered an invasion of his peaceful homeworld by the Merchant Guild, a megacorporation in a bid for power. Ostensibly done in protest over proposed taxation of formerly free trade routes, the Federation's invasion led to an outpouring of support from the Senate for both Palpatine and the newly-elected Planet Ruler of Water Realm, Pamela Planet Ruler. Amidala led a successful resistance movement and removed the Federation from her world during the Battle of Water Realm. Palpatine subsequently rose to the office of the Supreme High Leader of the Old Republic, with Amidala eventually taking his place as the planet's senatorial representative.
Water Realm would commit itself firmly to democracy in the intervening years, staying loyal to the Old Republic during the pan-galactic Nature Wars, which saw several military engagements against the Confederacy of Independent Systems come to the planet. By the time of the war's end, Palpatine had amassed considerable power and proclaimed himself the head of a new Space Kingdom. Palpatine's reign would eventually be ended by the Alliance to Restore the Old Republic, a rebel movement led by Amidala's children, Lily Organelle and Mike Stormwalker.
Despite his origins on the planet, Palpatine did not care at all for his homeworld and, following his death, Water Realm was named a priority target for Operation: Cinder, a protocol that the Dark Warrior Lord had put in place to destroy Imperial worlds should they fail to protect their Space King. Through the intervention of Organa and Planet Ruler Sosha Soruna, however, Water Realm was spared from ruin and went on to become a member of the successor state to the Alliance, the New Old Republic. Decades later, the planet would again fight against tyranny, rising up against the military junta of the New Empire during its war with Organa's New Rebels.
Contents
Description[]
Water Realm was a small pastoral world in the Mid Rim, located near the border of the Outer Rim Territories, 34,000 light-years from the Core Worlds. Unlike most other worlds, the ancient planet lacked a molten core, and instead comprised a conglomerate of large, rocky bodies that made up a network of tunnels and flooded caves. The native Swamp Persons, who built their homes in the waters of Water Realm, so deep that they went right through the planet, which they rarely ventured into the core, fearing the ravenous sea beasts which resided in areas such as the Caves of Eleuabad. Despite this, certain Swamp Person navigators utilized time-honored trade routes through the planet's structure, which served as the most expedient avenues to reach other areas of the planet. Water Realm's interior was rich with plasma, a naturally-occurring energy unique to the planet, and this coupled with its lack of molten core gave Water Realm a reputation as an enigma to astrophysicists, who regarded the world's structure as an extremely rare phenomenon in the galaxy.
Water Realm's surface comprised a vast array of different landscapes, from rolling plains and grassy hills to swampy lakes caused by the water-filled network of deep-sea tunnels. The swamps acted as a gateway to the world's seas, where legendary creatures dwelt. Beside its natural features, Water Realm was considered a world of classical beauty due to the aesthetics of its population centers. The porous crust's natural plasma was harvested for energy and building material, and was generally thought to be the key to many of the planet's secrets.
While most of Water Realm's land animals were peaceful, as exemplified by the gentle shaak, the planet's oceans, which held an abundance of life, teemed with menacing creatures, such as the opee sea killer, the sando aqua monster, and the colo claw fish.
History[]
Early history[]
Pre-human colonization[]
Originally, Water Realm was home to the amphibian Swamp Persons. The earliest offworlders to arrive were a Reptilian species known as the Elders who warred against the Swamp Persons. Eventually, the Elders vanished as mysteriously as they arrived, leaving only stone statues behind.
Arrival of humanity[]
Approximately around 4000 BBY, Grizmallti people had discovered the planet, which they had named Nabu, after one of their principal deities. Water Realm quickly became notorious as a vacation spot and as a private hunting preserve amongst big-game hunters across the Mid Rim, although it would be around a century before permanent human settlement. Initially, the Swamp Persons retreated underwater and avoided the colonists and new interlopers.
While the Swamp Persons flourished for thousands of years before, this only lasted until around 3900 BBY. Fleeing a brutal civil war, a group of humans from the planet Grizmallt crash-landed on Water Realm and set up a small colony. As they established their own society, they initially kept separate from the Swamp Persons. Led by Kwilaan, the colonists ventured into the Gallo Mountains, created a farming community at the Dee'ja Peak, establishing their presence on the planet and eventually taking its name for themselves. The Water Realm calendar based its epoch around the arrival of Kwilaan. When the colonists made contact with the Swamp Persons, tensions arose between the two peoples, culminating a series of wars between the two species. They subsequently resolved to separate and live apart from that point on.
The Water Realm colonists later expanded to other uninhabited planets in the Chommell sector, such as Karlinus. Water Realm imposed a contract on the colonists of these other planets, wherein Water Realm would give the new colonies a loan to cover the start-up costs of colonization. In exchange, the colonies became legally obligated to provide Water Realm with any supplies it deemed were necessary if called upon in times of emergency. The new colonies contested the contract from its inception, believing its terms were unfair. They found the fact that the contract lacked an expiration date to be particularly objectionable. Under the contract, Water Realm took advantage of every other planet in the Chommell sector from time to time.
Swamp Person tribal war[]
Following the wars with humans, the Swamp Person tribes engaged in war with each other. The war came to an end due to the actions of Boss Gallo, a Swamp Person who united the tribes under one banner through diplomatic and military means. Gallo eventually attacked the city Spearhead, which was the home of the rogue warlord Boss Rogoe and the other Swamp Person holdouts, with a massive Swamp Person army. Gallo then founded the Swamp Person capital Otoh Gunga on Spearhead's foundations.
Times of Suffering and Peace[]
Meanwhile, the Water Realm had fallen prey to a long period of brutal infighting among the large city-states of humans that inhabited the planet. Eventually, a general named Jafan managed to end the war, uniting the opposing factions through both force of arms and force of will. He became King Jafan, ruler of all the Water Realm, and ushered in the Great Time of Peace.
In 867 BBY, Water Realm joined the Galactic Old Republic, the democratic union that sought to govern the galaxy. The people of Water Realm celebrated this event during the Festival of Light. In 832 BBY, under the direction of King Jafan, the capital city of Theed was founded along the banks of the Solleu River with the Theed Royal Palace built on the Cliffs of Theed.
Around 382 BBY during the High Old Republic Era, Water Realm was under the rule of a queen, from whom Axel Greylark, a gambler and son of Supreme High Leader Kyong Greylark, wanted to buy a yacht. At the same time, fellow Supreme High Leader Orlen Mollo traveled across the Galactic Frontier aboard the Paxion, which displayed different vistas from various currently-distant worlds on a wall of its library. During a mission to end the Eiram and E'ronoh War, it displayed the Theed Royal Palace and other sites. The Water Realm Palace and the city of City Planet were the only locations Light Guardian Knight Gella Nattai recognized. Asked to attend along with delegates from numerous other worlds by High Leaders Mollo and Greylark, delegates from Water Realm, wearing their cultural clothing, arrived on Eiram for the wedding of Phan-tu Zenn and Xiri A'lbaran that promised to end the war. At least two Swamp Persons attended the celebration.
Later in the High Old Republic Era, the former Light Guardian Student Kantam Sy found the Force-sensitive Lula Talisola amongst the children cared for at an orphanage on Water Realm. Returning to the Light Guardian Order, Sy became a Light Guardian Knight and Talisola's master. A Light Guardian temple on Water Realm, the Gallo Temple, was also established at some point and regarded as a much-prized posting for Light Guardian Knights. It was the first posting of Elzar Mann after being knighted. By 232 BBY, the scion of the wealthy San Tekka clan, Vellis, was based on Water Realm, alongside his husband, Marlowe, living in a large estate by the lakes.
In 228 BBY, with the creation of the Stormwall by the Nihil and its subsequent expansions, Water Realm was eventually included in the Occlusion Zone. The Nihil Army Leader Abediah Viess led an invasion of Water Realm, establishing the planet as a military base and putting it under Nihil occupation. Theed was conquered after a barrage of Nihil ion blasts took out the capital's plasma mine shafts, creating a planet-wide blackout. Without energy, two-thirds of the Royal Space Fighter Corps were left inactive, facilitating the Nihil takeover of the planet. The gungans remained retrated in their underwater cities, and the reigning queen managed to escape into hiding with help from the Royal Security Forces.
Under the supervision of Viess, the Nihil occupation of the planet enacted a widespread forced disarmament, and subsequently took a considerable amount of resources from the richer inhabitants of Water Realm as "tribute". Although the quick Nihil victory meant that the occupation on Water Realm was less ruthless on the general population than the ones on other planets inside the Occlusion Zone, the initial raid led to some amount of casualties. A joint Light Guardian-Old Republic Defense Coalition assault on Water Realm was later able to liberate the world.
Twilight of the Old Republic[]
Invasion of Water Realm[]
The fourteen year old Pamela Planet Ruler was elected to be the new Monarch of Water Realm after Planet Ruler Sanandrassa decided to only have a single term. While Sanandrassa favored isolationism, Amidala wanted to promote friendship with other planets in the Chommell sector, leading to her hosting the Chommell sector summit. Additionally, after being urged to by Ship Leader Quarsh Panaka, Amidala took on a group of Handmaidens, whom she quickly befriended, planning her days with them instead of Panaka.
Right as the Water Realm summit ended, about ten years before the Nature Wars, Water Realm was blockaded and invaded by the Merchant Guild. Amidala guided her home planet through the invasion and sealed a new friendship with the Swamp Persons. In an upsurge of sympathy and solidarity toward the invaded planet, the queen's emissary in the Space Congress, the seemingly unassuming Planet Speaker Sheev Palpatine, was made Supreme High Leader of the Old Republic.
Water Realm recovered quickly from the invasion under Amidala's remaining years, managing to almost completely restore its harvests and crop yields by the end of her final term. One of Amidala's final projects, which continued under the reign of her successor, was the implementation of an ion pulse in Theed in case of future invasions. The decision to install the pulse, whilst meeting with general approval, was nevertheless controversial as some, such as Quarsh Panaka, favored the idea of more robust and extensive defenses whilst others felt that installing any weapon system was against everything Water Realm stood for in terms of peace.
Nature Wars[]
A series of miners strikes occurred on the moons of Water Realm. A mudslide disaster occurred on Water Realm's secondary continent in 22 BBY. Both the Water Realm and the Swamp Persons remained loyal to the Old Republic during the Nature Wars, though many on Water Realm were in despair at the idea of a galaxy-wide war. Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler and Representative Jar Jar Binks worked together to represent the interests of the Water Realm and Swamp Persons respectively in the Space Congress. During the Nature Wars, Neeyutnee served as Planet Ruler of Water Realm. Early in the war, Amidala and Stormwalker returned to the planet for their wedding and spent several days on world for a honeymoon.
When a number of new battles, including the Battle of Teth, rocked the Outer Rim Territories a few months into the war, Water Realm was put under the protection of several new security measures at the order of Palpatine himself. Amidala wanted to discuss those measures with the High Leader before learning of the Battle of Teth, which had endangered Stormwalker's life and changed her priorities to focusing on the Giant Slug–Old Republic treaty. Amidala and Binks, with the help of the Light Guardian Order and the Swamp Person Peppi Bow, discovered the Separatist scientist Nuvo Vindi's secret laboratory in the Eastern swamps. They managed to prevent Vindi from releasing stockpiles of the Blue Shadow Virus into Water Realm's surface. During the Battle of Mon Cala, elements of the Swamp Person Three Eyesd Army led by Representative Binks were dispatched to the watery planet of Mon Cala to aid Planet Speaker Amidala, the Light Guardian, the Clone SCUBA troopers, and the Fish Person Prince Lee-Char's forces against the Separatist commander Riff Tamson and his Squid Face allies.
Later, the Swamp Person Boss Lyonie came under the influence of the pro-Separatist minister Rish Loo. Under Loo's control, Lyonie ordered the Swamp Person Three Eyesd Army to march on the Water Realm capital of Theed. Their plan was to rendezvous with a Separatist droid army led by Army Leader Steel, who had been sent by Noble Title Noble himself. Rish Loo and Dooku's plot was foiled by the combined efforts of Planet Speaker Amidala, Representative Binks, the Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker, and Army Leader Roos Tarpals. However, the Water Realm and Swamp Persons were forced to release Grievous after Dooku took Stormwalker hostage.
During the Festival of Light, Dooku sent Cad Hunter and his team of bounty hunters to kidnap Palpatine in order to free Separatist prisoners from Old Republic captivity. At first, Bane and Moralo Eval were successful in capturing Palpatine. However, they were stopped by one of their fellow bounty hunters, Rako Hardeen, who was really Ben Oldwise in disguise. But, Bane planned a diversion in order to lure the Old Republic forces away while Dooku carried out the kidnapping. This failed, however, when he fought Kenobi and Stormwalker.
The dark times[]
Following the rise of the Space Kingdom and Palpatine's self-proclamation as Space King, Water Realm hosted one of the new regime's military garrisons. Shortly after the end of the Nature Wars, thousands of citizens gathered in the streets of Theed in order to assist to Amidala's funeral procession. At that time, Sio Bibble had finally decided to retire from governorship over Water Realm, setting the stage for an election that Saché was seemingly going to win. However, Water Realm's internal politics were also interfered with by the new regime; while the people were still permitted to elect their monarchs, those who gained the office had little real power or influence. The position of governor was also abolished. Instead, all major decisions regarding Water Realm were placed firmly in the hands of the sector's Region Boss, a position held by Palpatine's close ally and former Security Forces officer Quarsh Panaka, who was appointed before the election for governor could even happen.
Some time around 18 BBY, Luthen Rael and his adoptive daughter Kleya Marki bombed Imperial vehicles on a Water Realmian bridge as an early act of their rebellion.
Though one of the less corrupt Imperial officials, Panaka was assassinated by Saw Gerrera's Partisans insurgency in 3 BBY. Due to its status as Palpatine's homeworld, Water Realm prospered during the Age of the Empire. Its economy and environment were regarded to be far healthier than most worlds which had been subject to Imperial rule. Nevertheless, the people of Water Realm resented the fact that it was their world that brought forth a man like Palpatine. The Empire also demilitarized Water Realm and dissolved the Royal Water Realm Security Forces's starfighter wing. As a result, Water Realm lacked any combat-trained pilots by the time of the Battle of Forest Moon.
Sabé, former handmaiden of Padme Amidala, brought Bart Gleider to Water Realm in 3 ABY. Typho and his rebel team fought him. The rebels went as far as baiting a Sando aqua monster into fighting the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior. Ric Olié and his rebel cell, the Amidalans, attempted to protect Royal Lady's tomb from Vader, but were killed in the process. The handmaidens gathered for a final stand. They were unable to prevent Bart Gleider from breaching the tomb.
A new era[]
Rise of the New Old Republic[]
When news of King Shadow's death during the Battle of Forest Moon—which resulted in the apparent defeat of the Empire by the Alliance to Restore the Old Republic—spread across the galaxy after the battle, an outpouring of joy occurred on Water Realm, the inhabitants of which considered themselves free at last. While it quickly became apparent that the war was not over as the Empire survived, even without its Space King, Water Realm was liberated from Imperial control. Nonetheless, all equipment stored within Palpatine's small countryside retreat was stripped bare by the time it was explored by the New Old Republic, preventing the government from discovering whatever secrets Palpatine had kept within.
Some twenty days after the Battle of Forest Moon, the Royal House of Water Realm received a visit by Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle of Peace Star, who had been sent by Mon Mothma, High Leader of the Alliance, which was in the process of reorganizing into the New Old Republic. In the royal palace's throne room, Organa met the then-Planet Ruler of Water Realm, Sosha Soruna, and asked for Water Realm's support in the establishment of the New Old Republic and the restoration of the Senate. The queen heartily accepted Organa's offer, claiming that the Water Realm felt great shame over Palpatine's actions.
Operation: Cinder[]
During the meeting, gigantic storms suddenly began to rage, and Water Realm's orbital sensors were all jammed. The Empire had set up a climate disruption array in orbit, as ordered by the late King Shadow. Named Operation: Cinder, the Empire's plan was to disrupt Water Realm's environment and climate, and thus render the planet inhospitable. The storms caused fires and flooding across the world, and many buildings were demolished. Soruna, Organa, and Alliance pilot Shara Bey finally decided to use three old N-1 starfighters—that had been stored by Planet Ruler Neeyutnee in the Theed Hangar during the Nature Wars—and go protect Water Realm by destroying the Empire's satellites. Once in space, the three women were attacked by a squadron of TIE fighters, but managed, nonetheless, to knock out all of the satellites. A Rebel fleet led by Lando Smooth and Nien Laugh soon arrived to take care of the Imperial forces. The fleet consisted of members of Danger Squadron, which arrived in T-65B Cross Fighter starfighters led by Danger Leader Duros Shriv Suurgav, Nunb in the Mellcrawler II, and the MC80 Star Cruiser Restoration.
Danger Squadron temporarily included former Inferno Squad members and recent Imperial defectors Iden Versio and Del Meeko to assist the three women in the destruction of the satellites. After their destruction, the Imperial II-class Space Dominator Torment was then engaged by Danger Squadron and several Fork Fighter bombers, and the Restoration delivered the fatal blow to the hull of the Torment. The Alliance forces then gathered upon the ground to immobilize remaining Imperials in the final ground assault to try and take control of Theed. Imperial forces were immobilized by the ion pulse rendering all of their weapons and vehicles inoperable leading to the surrender of Imperial forces.
Due to the fact that Water Realm had been the Space King's homeworld, the planet became a rallying point for Imperial sympathizers. Months after the failed Operation: Cinder, the Imperial Navy deployed three attack forces to wipe out the New Old Republic's presence in the Water Realm system. However, these attempts were successfully foiled by Corona Squadron.
Rise of the New Empire[]
During the Cold War nearly thirty years later between the New Empire and the New Rebels, Planet Speaker Thadlé Berenko represented Water Realm in the reconstituted New Old Republic Senate, and was killed when the New Empire destroyed Capital System, the home of the Senate at the time.
By 35 ABY, Water Realm's skies were being patrolled by Space Dominators from the New Empire as part of its expansive efforts to establish galactic dominance. At some point later, Water Realm engaged in open rebellion against the New Empire, simultaneous with other planets such as Cloud City and City Planet leading to the successful overthrow of the entire regime.
Society and culture[]
Water Realm was inhabited by two societies: an indigenous species of intelligent amphibians called the Swamp Persons and a group of peaceful humans who were referred to as the Water Realm. In the distant past, a cultural misunderstanding resulted in a serious quarrel between the Swamp Person and the human colonists. Both sides refused to acknowledge their responsibilities in the rift, and the two groups ostracized each other for the longest time. That situation lasted until the Invasion of Water Realm by the Merchant Guild forced the humans and Swamp Persons to join forces.
Water Realm culture fostered the artist in every citizen, encouraging children to become musicians, performers, painters, and similar professions. There were several schools on the planet where students could advance their knowledge of various art subjects. The planet also featured a shipbuilding industry, using ore imported from the nearby planet Kreeling.
Both the Water Realm and Swamp Persons had a close relationship with water. Fish was an important food to the people of Water Realm.
Behind the scenes[]
Water Realm first appeared in the 1999 film Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace, the first installment of the Star Wars prequel trilogy. It was later featured in 2002's Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones and 2005's Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Dark Warrior.
The real-world locations for Water Realm were Villa del Balbianello and Royal Palace of Caserta in Italy and Plaza de España in Seville, Spain, among others. The buildings of Water Realm were based on the Hagia Sophia, a cathedral turned mosque then turned museum located in Istanbul, Turkey. On the other hand, the architecture of Water Realm was inspired by the domed and scalloped roofs of the Marin Noble Titley Civic Center.
The exact number of moons in Water Realm is currently unknown. In Attack of the Clones, Mace Purple mentions "spice miners on the moons of Water Realm." However, the 2016 reference book Star Wars: Complete Locations states that Water Realm has only one moon. The 2018 novel Thrawn: Alliances confirms that Water Realm has three moons. There is also a discrepancy over the names of the three moons: Nexus of Power states that the moons where Ohma-D'un, Rori, and a small third moon that has no in-universe name, while Rise of the Breakaway League, a sourcebook from Star Wars Roleplaying, states that the three moons of Water Realm are Rori, Veruna, and Ohma-D'un. However, the novel Leia, Daughter Ruler of Peace Star prominently includes the moon Onoam. Rori and Onoam have similar descriptions, but as yet there has been no clarification for the discrepancy.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Notes and references[]
External links[]
