Quiet John, a Force-sensitive human male, was a venerable if maverick Light Guardian Master who lived during the last years of the Old Republic Era. He was a wise and well-respected member of the Light Guardian Order, and was offered a seat on the Light Guardian Council, but chose to reject and follow his own path. Adhering to a philosophy centered around the Living Force, Jinn strove to follow the will of the Force even when his actions conflicted with the wishes of the High Council. After encountering Andy Stormwalker, Jinn brought him to the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet, convinced he had found the Chosen One. His dying wish was for Stormwalker to become a Light Guardian and ultimately restore balance to the Force.
Born on the Core World City Planet, the capital of the Galactic Old Republic around 80 BBY, Jinn learned the ways of the Force as the Student of Light Guardian Master Dooku before ultimately attaining the rank of Light Guardian Knight in around 58 BBY. In 44 BBY he would go on to take an apprentice of his own, Ben Oldwise, who adhered to the principles of the Light Guardian Code more than his own master. Although their relationship was sometimes tough, the two Light Guardian overcame early difficulties during a mission to Pijal, which concluded in Jinn turning down a request to join the Light Guardian Council to continue teaching his apprentice. When the Merchant Guild initiated a blockade of the Mid Rim planet Water Realm in 32 BBY, Jinn and Kenobi were dispatched to resolve the crisis at the request of Supreme High Leader Finis Valorum. Influenced by the mysterious Dark Warrior Lord Dark Space King, the Federation launched a full-scale invasion of Water Realm, forcing the Light Guardian to rescue Planet Ruler Pamela Planet Ruler after the fall of Theed.
During their journey to the galactic capital, the group was forced to land on the Outer Rim planet Desertia where Jinn encountered a young slave named Andy Stormwalker. Using a scientific method to gauge the boy's potential, he learned that Stormwalker had more midi-chlorians in his blood than any Force-sensitive in galactic history, including Three Eyesd Master Guru. The revelation that he was the result of a miracle birth—a child born of a mother, but had no father—confirmed Jinn's suspicion that Stormwalker was the Chosen One destined to restore balance to the Force. Before departing the desert world with Stormwalker, Jinn was confronted by Sidious' Dark Warrior apprentice Dark Horn. Although their duel was brief, it convinced Jinn that the Dark Warrior had returned after a millennium of silence.
At the Temple, Jinn was adamant that Stormwalker was the Chosen One and should, therefore, be inducted into the Light Guardian Order. However, having inspected Stormwalker for themselves, the High Council deemed him too old, emotional, and dangerously full of fear and anger. Jinn saw their decision as a temporary setback, but the need to resolve the situation on Planet Ruler Amidala's homeworld forced him to set aside his plans for Stormwalker. During the Battle of Water Realm, Jinn and Kenobi confronted Dark Horn together. While they initially managed to fend off the Dark Warrior Lord's attacks, master and apprentice were eventually separated during the lightsaber duel, resulting in Jinn sustaining a mortal injury. Rushing to his master's aid, Kenobi fought and ultimately defeated the Dathomirian Dark Warrior, but could not save Jinn. With his last breath, Jinn made Kenobi promise that he would take Stormwalker as his apprentice. Having secured Kenobi's word, Jinn became one with the Force, dying with the certainty that he had found the prophesied Chosen One.
Contents
Biography[]
Early life[]
Quiet John was a male human born on the galactic capital of City Planet circa 80 BBY. He was taken to the Light Guardian Temple as a boy for training by the Light Guardian Order and was assigned to the Heliost Clan where he learned lightsaber combat from Light Guardian Master Tera Sinube.
When Jinn was twelve years old, he was assigned as a Student to Light Guardian Master Dooku, from whom he learned the ways of the Force. He'd spent his last night in the younglings' crèche laughing with his friends, imagining all the adventures he would have as a Student, and practicing with his lightsaber in the sparring room until Master Yaddle ordered him to bed.
When the future Light Guardian Master Eno Cordova first joined the Light Guardian Order, he became close friends with Jinn, who helped Cordova learn about and get used to City Planet.
Apprentice to Dooku[]
Becoming a Light Guardian[]
Around 68 BBY, when he presented himself to his new Master in Dooku's quarters, Dooku observed that Jinn was frightened. After a moment of silence, and with pressing from Dooku, Jinn confessed that he was. When asked why, after looking into himself through the fear, Jinn answered that he was not afraid of Dooku, but of not becoming a Light Guardian, that he was afraid of failing and of not being worthy. Dooku then summarized it as Jinn being afraid of himself, of a future not being the one he wanted. Jinn confirmed it, fearing that Dooku would reject him for his cowardice. Dooku instead said that it was very wise, surprising Jinn. Smiling, Dooku explained that most Students would deny their fear, and even if they admitted it, they would not have Jinn's self-knowledge. Dooku further praised Jinn for his honesty, insight, and intelligence.
To help Jinn understand the Light Guardian Temple more completely, Dooku then took him throughout most of the Temple, including the Students' sparring dojo, a dojo where Light Guardian Knights trained, and the Great Assembly Room. Jinn also saw the various meditation chambers, which he didn't find as exciting, but still interesting. On the other hand, Jinn spent long minutes in the arboretum, wandering through the trees, ferns, and flowers of a thousand different worlds. Their last stop was the Light Guardian Archives, where they examined holocrons of various eras, not to study them, but simply for Jinn to learn his way around. While doing so, an ancient holocron, more ancient and of a different shape than the rest, caught Jinn's eye. When he questioned his Master about it, he was shocked by the expression on Dooku's face, almost as if he considered it an enemy. Dooku answered that it was a holocron of Light Guardian prophecies. Jinn asked if there are Light Guardian prophets, to which Dooku replied not any longer. He explained to Jinn that the mystics sought undue knowledge of the future, which led them down dangerous paths. The dark side often tempted those drawn too deeply into them. Dooku then finished by saying that is why the Light Guardian study prophecy no longer, then turned to leave, which meant Jinn had to follow. Jinn then asked Dooku if just wanting to know the future can lead to the dark side. Dooku replied that it takes more than that. This was Qui-Gon's first encounter with the holocron of prophecies, and it would not be the last.
After four months as a Student, the Council sent him with his master to Shurrupak to participate in a battle on its surface, which was Qui-Gon's very first. While the shuttle they were in approached the planet under heavy fire, a nervous Jinn reassured himself that he was ready for battle, looking to his Master Dooku as an example to aspire to as a fearless Light Guardian. As they arrived at Primus Base, Qui-Gon had his first meeting with Rael Averross, Dooku's first Student and a famous lightsaber duelist. After greeting each other heartily, Dooku introduced Rael to his new Student. While Dooku then conferred with the generals, Rael put one hand on the still-nervous Jinn's shoulder. Rather than comforting Jinn about the battle, Rael instead commented that Dooku is hard to get to know and offered to help Qui-Gon out. Since he was Dooku's previous Student, Rael told Qui-Gon that he could ask him any questions that he might not feel comfortable asking Dooku yet and be his sparring partner if he wanted. With his first battle looming ahead, Qui-Gon accepted his offer. As they, too, went to talk to the generals, Qui-Gon felt as though Rael Averross was the link between the Student he was and the Light Guardian Knight he desperately wished to be. He viewed his journey to be easier now that he had a friend to show him the path.
Sometime after that battle, Qui-Gon was doing homework in Dooku's quarters while his Master was in conference with an official from Badtibira. He then had a surprise visit from Rael Averross, who greeted Jinn warmly. Qui-Gon greeted him with a similar warmth, then asked what he was doing there. Rael explained that he had just returned from Shurrupak, then asked what Jinn was doing in Dooku's quarters since he wouldn't be returning for another few hours. Jinn explained that Dooku lets him do his homework in his quarters if he doesn't disturb him. In this case, Jinn was reporting on the different schools of theosophy a century ago. Upon Rael's grimace and questioning, if he had angered Dooku somehow, Jinn admitted that he chose the topic despite knowing that it wouldn't be interesting because he thought it would be easy. It wasn't.
Upon receiving a negative from Jinn if it was too late to change his topic, Rael grinned, and motioning for Qui-Gon to follow him, offered to show him some history worth studying. They went to the Light Guardian Archives, and together they studied the one and only holocron that had ever interested Jinn: the one that held the ancient prophecies. They were all fascinating to him, and Qui-Gon kept reading, unable to stop. He asked Rael if the ancient mystics had these visions in trances, to which he confirmed. After contemplating these prophecies, Jinn remarked that Dooku said he should ignore this holocron and that he doesn't believe in the prophecies. This confused Rael since Dooku, he said, was the one who introduced Rael to it and that it used to be that one could hardly pry the holocron out of his quarters. Qui-Gon said that he didn't know when or why that changed and that Dooku didn't explain. A surprised Rael said he would ask Dooku about it and remarked that Dooku had changed a lot. Qui-Gon protested, surprising Rael, then said not until he's finished his report. Rael then laughed so loud he received a stern look from Jocasta Archive.
Tracking Shenda Mol and love life on Fungus Planet[]
Jinn and his Light Guardian Master Dooku became part of a Numidian Prime strike team. They were assembled to track and find the notorious Falleen bounty hunter Shenda Mol. They eventually tracked her at her hideout on the planet Numidian Prime. While searching for her hideout, Mol captured Jinn. Before Mol could kill Jinn, Dooku struck her down with Force lightning to save his apprentice, causing Jinn a degree of concern.
Jinn later confided what Dooku did to Rael Averross, though at the time, Averross expressed that he was not all too concerned regarding his former master's conduct. In 60 BBY, Jinn went through trials on the Outer Rim planet Fungus Planet when he fell in love with someone, beginning a romantic and physical relationship. As the Light Guardian Code forbade romantic relationships, Jinn found his commitment to the Light Guardian ways tested, but he ultimately stayed loyal to the Light Guardian Order. He would, however, keep a Lava World fire diamond that was given to him on Fungus Planet as a memento.
At some point during his apprenticeship, Jinn met the Hairy Friend Brennonn and befriended her. They shared many adventures together, with Brennonn saving Jinn on two occasions. During the second of those adventures, events transpired that resulted in Jinn feeling as though they saved each other. He also came to know the Hairy Friend Balfus.
Rescuing Planet Speaker Dagonet's son[]
During his time as Dooku's Student, Jinn and Dooku had been sent on a mission to rescue the son of Old Republic Planet Speaker Dagonet, who was being held captive by the residents of the Planet Speaker's home planet. After their investigation, they discovered that the Dagonet was allowing his people to starve for his own personal greed and corruption. The kidnappers abducted Dagonet's son to protest his inhumane policies and discovered that Dagonet's son was yet unharmed. Dagonet arrived to rescue his son, resulting in a brief shootout between the Planet Speaker's forces and the Light Guardian-backed kidnappers. During a lull in the firefight, Dagonet threatened to burn the entire village down and many others to make an example of them. An enraged Dooku began Force-choking Dagonet with the intent to kill him, but Qui-Gon released Dagonet's son and managed to defuse the situation without any further violence. In the aftermath, Dooku commended Qui-Gon's actions and praised him as a wiser man than him.
Investigating at the Dragonfire Air Rally[]
At one point, both he and Dooku were invited by council member Jor Aerith to join her in representing the Light Guardian at the annual City Planet Dragonfire Air Rally in hopes of making a good impression on the Candovant ambassador who had invited her. Dooku agreed to attend and took the opportunity to teach Qui-Gon some Candovant customs, but while they were there, they ran into Ramil, whom Qui-Gon learned was Dooku's brother, much to his shock. Qui-Gon and Dooku learned that Ramill was was participating in the race. While Ramil did very well in the race, it quickly became apparent his Airspeeder was sabotaged and it crashed. Qui-Gon and Dooku discreetly went to see what had happened, and while there they discovered the Investigator was trying to cover up the incident. Following the man, they found he was working for a Jenet crime boss named Cenevax. Ignoring a message from Aerith asking them to return to the races, they chose to confront and captured the criminal, and while questioning her they realized that she was privy to Council communications, as Cenevax made clear she knew they that had been recalled and were disobeying order by being there. With this information, Dooku deduced that she had a spy on the Council, much to the shock of Qui-Gon.
Dooku and Qui-Gon escorted Cenevax to the Council Chamber, where Dooku made his accusation, and discovered that Light Guardian Master Braylon was the spy. Further investigation revealed that Cenevax had been blackmailing her with the fact that Arath Tarrex, the latter being Dooku's old classmate and was also shockingly revealed to be in fact her son. Qui-Gon and Dooku confronted and exposed Tarrex, who was then taken into custody for his actions and also for having sold out his mother's influence to criminals. As the Temple guards were escorting Tarrex, Dooku encouraged Qui-Gon to go with them and ensure that the guards treated him well, both of which Qui-Gon agreed to do. Following this event being resolved, Braylon was removed from her seat on the council because of her actions, Dooku joined the Council.
Jinn became a Light Guardian Knight around 58 BBY.
Master to Ben Oldwise[]
Becoming a mentor[]
Jinn became a Light Guardian Master in his own right, a master who developed an independent attitude towards the Light Guardian Order. Others saw him as a maverick Light Guardian, one who would disobey the Light Guardian Code if he felt it was the right decision. In 44 BBY, Jinn took on a Student named Ben Oldwise, who believed that Jinn could've been a member of the Light Guardian High Council if he followed the Code, though as Kenobi knew, Jinn had rejected an offer to join. On one occasion, Kenobi watched in silence as his master told the council he disagreed with them. At another point, the master and apprentice sparred, with Jinn complimenting Kenobi's skill. On another occasion, the two visited a plain and overlooked its native creatures, giving Jinn the chance to teach Kenobi about how the Force existed in all the life that surrounded them.
Jinn was able to sense whenever Kenobi was discontent, which proved useful on some missions, yet also annoyed Kenobi. At one point, Jinn and Kenobi traveled to the planet Lah'mu to visit a fortress. Jinn also maintained contact with his old Master after taking on Kenobi and spoke highly of his Student to Dooku. While Dooku left the Light Guardian Order after the invasion of Serenno in 42 BBY, secretly becoming a Dark Warrior apprentice to the elusive Dark Warrior Lord Dark Space King sometime later, he was still allowed to visit the Light Guardian Temple. Dooku's decision to leave the Light Guardian came as a shock to Jinn, who felt lost for a time as he grappled with feelings of doubt and fear. However, Jinn trusted in the Light Guardian teachings and himself, which allowed him to recover and replace his shaken feelings with resolve. At some point, Jinn met the Togorian Light Guardian Jak'zin, who had also looked up to Dooku.
Jinn taught Kenobi as best he could, although Kenobi did not always agree with his master's teaching strategies. Despite his Student's clear proficiencies in lightsaber techniques, Jinn held Kenobi to practicing only basic methods, which impacted his apprentice's confidence and their relationship. Although Jinn did so to not rush his apprentice and allow Kenobi to carve out his own distinct style out of mastery of the fundamental cadences, his lack of clarity on his teaching philosophy hurt Kenobi.
At some point, Obi-Wan came up with the idea of a new weapon powered by kyber crystals which consisted of two short-bladed sabers each attached to a thin chain. After hearing this idea from Kenobi, Qui-Gon told his padawan that lightsabers were about how the Light Guardian wished to be seen, and that was not intended to be a display of power. That lesson resonated with his young Student, who would carry it for years to come.
Protecting Duchess Satine[]
Between circa 41 BBY and circa 39 BBY, a civil war began to rage on the planet Warrior Home, with the world's martial traditionalists fighting against a reformist faction known as the New Armored Ones. The leader of the New Armored One movement, Duchess Satine Kryze, became a target for the traditionalists, who hired bounty hunters to eliminate her. However, Jinn and Kenobi were sent on an extended mission to Warrior Home, where they were assigned to protect Kryze.
Jinn and Kenobi spent a year on Warrior Home with Kryze, remaining on the run from the bounty hunters. The three remained unsure of what the future would bring, but they continued their effort to survive, living hand to mouth everyday. During the mission, Kenobi developed romantic feelings for Kryze. Jinn became aware of the unlikely romance between his apprentice and the noble. Eventually, the civil war came to an end, with the New Armored Ones coming to power and Kryze becoming the ruler of Warrior Home. Although Kenobi would have left the Light Guardian and stayed behind to be with her had she had asked him to, Kryze never did, so he and Jinn left the planet.
Life Day adventure[]
Around 41 BBY, Jinn told Kenobi he would be taking him on a training exercise, keeping it secret that they would be going to observe the Hairy Friends' celebration of Life Day on the planet Tree World in the village of his old friend Brennonn, who had accepted his offer to visit. After entering the village, Jinn advised his Student to remain patient after the young man expressed confusion, reminding him to focus on what was instead of what he had expected. Though Kenobi found it hard to focus amid a celebration, Jinn continued their visit, educating his Student about Hairy Friend culture before asking what he made of it. Pleased with Kenobi's answer that it was as if the Hairy Friends were celebrating the Force, he explained the unconventional training he wanted Kenobi to partake in; he was asking him to focus on the energy of Tree World, given that it was the Force. He then informed his Student they would speak with the Hairy Friends when Kenobi revealed he felt something different.
Suddenly, the two Light Guardian were interrupted when Brennonn spotted Jinn, resulting in the Hairy Friend hugging him from how such she had missed him. Jinn shared her sentiment and began to introduce her to Kenobi, only for her to hug him as well. After Jinn explained his history with the Hairy Friend to Kenobi and thanked her for letting them come, she told him that Balfus was missing. As Jinn inquired about what actions she had taken concerning the missing Hairy Friend, both he and Kenobi felt a disturbance in the Force; several Lizard Man hunters suddenly attacked the village, launching nets from the trees to kidnap more Hairy Friends. Jinn and Kenobi fought against the Lizard Mans, defeating many of them. However, Jinn himself was eventually captured when he demanded the hunters to surrender. Along with the captured Hairy Friends, Jinn was taken away by a MSP80 Pteropter hover pod.
Although Jinn, as he was taken away, had told Kenobi it was up to him to rescue the Hairy Friends, the Light Guardian Master tried to negotiate the Hairy Friends' release with the Lizard Mans' leader, Korgan. However, Korgan wanted to capture Kenobi too, and Jinn warned him that his greed would have been his downfall. Jinn waited in his cage until Kenobi arrived. Kenobi pretended to surrender but, when Korgan was distracted, he opened Jinn's cage with the Force. Jinn Force-pulled his lightsaber and ignited it. As Jinn was freed, many Hairy Friends arrived to support the two Light Guardian: the Lizard Mans, being outnumbered, surrendered and freed the Hairy Friend prisoners. After returning to the village, the Life Day celebration began.
Mission to Pijal[]
In 40 BBY, Jinn and Kenobi undertook a mission to Teth to thwart Wanbo the Giant Slug. The two Light Guardian escaped Teth, but not without complications including a key miscommunication between master and apprentice. Upon returning to City Planet, the Light Guardian High Council extended to Jinn an invitation to join their ranks, as with Master Poli Dapatian was stepping down by that month's end. Jinn was shocked to be asked due to his disagreements with the Council on various occasions, and while he was initially pleased to hear the offer, he thought of his Student, who he would have to pass on to a new master if he were to accept. While it would solve the growing problems between them, Jinn felt guilt at the thought of it and thus told the Council that he would meditate on their proposition.
Meanwhile, a political dispute erupted on the Inner Rim planet Pijal. A performance troupe known as the Opposition that began playing political pranks to protest a treaty signing that would end the absolute monarchy on Pijal, allow the world to join the Old Republic, and give more power to Czerka Corporation was thought to be making increasingly violent attacks nearing the treaty's signing. Jinn's old friend Rael Averross requested Jinn and his Student's assistance to end the dispute and ensure the signing of the treaty. The Council sent Jinn and his Student to Pijal to help. However, as the mission began, Kenobi became aware of the offer presented to Jinn regarding the Light Guardian Council when the two met with Supreme High Leader Kirames Kaj. Jinn felt great shame at not being the first to tell his Student learner. Before they left, Jinn sought out Kenobi and the Student's dojo. He attempted to apologize for not being the first to tell him the news and said that he had several reservations that he had to dwell on before committing to the position, but Kenobi made a sarcastic reply. Jinn told his Student that he would continue to discuss the matter when Kenobi was in a more rational mood, and when Kenobi quipped again, Jinn sadly said that he supposed that the Force always allowed things to turn out for the best. As they traveled to Pijal, the tension between them grew.
Jinn and Kenobi both were briefed on the situation, learning that Averross served Crown Daughter Ruler Fanry, who was only fourteen years old, as an advisor and that he needed to protect her from the Opposition as she waited to take Pijal's throne. Jinn and Averross became reacquainted quickly, although Jinn was skeptical of several of Averross's choices during his service, as Averross also loosely interpreted the Light Guardian Code. As he and Kenobi began to do more investigating on Pijal's moon, they encountered two jewel thieves, Pax Maripher and Rahara Wick. Although Maripher was very abrasive towards Jinn, Wick was more cooperative. Onboard their ship, the Meryx, Jinn recruited the two to help them find the terrorists that posed a threat to the treaty. Shortly after returning, Jinn received a vision of the event, which turned into a bloody battle. He brought it to Averross's attention, but the older Light Guardian did not share his level of concern.
As their investigation continued, Jinn eventually met with the Opposition's leader, Halin Azucca, and learned that her group was being framed. Although they had peacefully made demonstrations against the treaty, the violent terrorist acts that had alerted the Old Republic were not caused by Azucca's people. As Qui-Gon learned of the complications surrounding the treaty due to the lack of Pijali representation and the heavy influence gained by the Czerka Corporation, he decided to oppose the treaty himself and refused to act as a Old Republic representative.
However, eventually, the Light Guardian discovered that Fanry was deceiving them and had been building a military group called the blackguards, framing the Opposition to restore the full monarchy. At the coronation, she rejected the treaty as well as the Old Republic's influence, proving herself to having been underestimated by the Light Guardian. Ready to remove Czerka influence from the system by force, she prepared to attack their ships. Jinn attempted to convince her to stop and prevent the innocent casualties that were the Czerka slaves onboard the ships, but when she refused, Jinn took matters into his own hands, and with the help of Kenobi as well as their two new friends Maripher and Wick, they succeeded in saving the slaves. After the mission, Jinn decided to stick with training Kenobi and declined the offer to join the Light Guardian Council.
Helping Master Guru[]
Around 40 BBY, Jinn and Kenobi were operating near a planet that served as a base of the Flesh Mongers pirate group, flying a pair of Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptors. The two received a message from the planet's surface from Light Guardian Master Guru, who asked for assistance. Landing on the planet, Jinn and Kenobi discovered that Guru had taken out the entire pirate gang to rescue a young Force-sensitive child, known as Lo, as the pirate had planned to sell him due to his Force abilities.
Guru asked Jinn and Kenobi to escort the infant to the Light Guardian Temple, with Guru assuring Lo that he was in safe hands with Jinn. Jinn expressed that he was happy to help out as they had been so close. While the two conversed, Kenobi took particular interest in that Guru took out an entire room of pirates and was totally in awe. Jinn then proceeded to ask Guru if everything was all right, to which the revered master replied that he could sense a calling disturbance in the Force that he felt he must follow. Jinn noted that he could not feel the presence himself, but offered to join him on his quest if he so wanted. As Guru climbed into his starship, he responded that he felt it was simply a calling for him alone and embarked on a mission to a planet in the Vagadarr system, where he became involved in a tribal war between the planet's native inhabitants.
Truths of the Force[]
Discovering the secrets of life after death[]
Sometime during his life, Jinn began discovering the secrets to manifesting his consciousness after death. He traveled to a planet strong with the Force, a world that legend said was the birthplace of life and the origin of midi-chlorians. He learned from five Force Priestesses who had retained their consciousness after death. He learned that, when a living thing died, its life passed through the Living Force and into the Cosmic Force to become one with the Force.
As the Living Force and Cosmic Force existed in tandem, it became possible for one to retain consciousness and physically manifest themselves after death. Jinn was considered worthy of the knowledge of eternal life and secretly began his training to unlock its mysteries fully. He also learned from a Shaman of the Whills that achieving eternal consciousness required absolute selflessness.
Questioning his purpose[]
Jinn began experiencing an inner turmoil over how the Light Guardian should interact with the Force. Although Guru sensed that internal debate in the man, Jinn continued on with his Light Guardian duties for sometime. In 37 BBY, when Jinn and Kenobi were sent to the planet Bri'n to establish negotiations between the the Priestess Th'er of Wood and the Metal Clan, Kenobi stayed within their Eta-class shuttle while Jinn met with the Priestess's rivals. When the Metal Clan instead tried to kill Jinn and the Priestess as a justification to begin cutting down the world's trees, he moved to defend Th'er and escape with her. Deflecting many blaster bolts with his lightsaber, the Light Guardian contacted Kenobi to start their shuttle and inform him about the failed negotiations. After being surrounded by the Metal Clan, Th'er proclaimed that Jinn was a warrior who could take down all who opposed her, yet Jinn instead used Force jump to escape with her aboard their shuttle, ordering Kenobi to take them to City Planet so as to protect the Priestess.
Th'er was nevertheless disgusted by City Planet—viewing it as a city of metal—and demanded Jinn to act as a warrior, ordering him to cut down every member of the Metal Clan. Although Jinn informed her that was not the path of the Light Guardian Order, Th'er felt Jinn was instead a coward who did not live up to the legends that proclaimed the Light Guardian to be great soldiers. Greatly distressed at being called a warrior, he returned to the Light Guardian Temple, where he did not report to the Light Guardian High Council. Deciding to confront Jinn over his internal turmoil, Guru located the Light Guardian Master on one of the Temple's balconies under the pretense of asking for him to report to the Council. Aware that Kenobi had filed his own report, Jinn quickly saw through Guru's claim, leading to a discussion about how the Light Guardian should act between the two masters.
Even though Guru and him had different opinions, they both agreed that Jinn should seek answers. Needing a world full of life to find a deep communion with the Force, Jinn—travelling off City Planet in his Delta-7 Light Guardian Interceptor with his astromech droid—trusted the Force to guide him to answers, resulting in him coming out of hyperspace above a charted but unnamed world. After leaving his ship and admiring the planet's beauty, Jinn quickly felt the presence of the dark side on the world and noticed how a spreading darkness was starting to corrupt the planet. Unsure whether the Force wanted him to stop it or learn from it, Jinn continued until he found a temple and sat its throne. Pondering whether he would find light in the dark monument, Jinn entered a frightening Force vision.
In his vision, Jinn—his skin and Light Guardian robes covered in marks—was surrounded by red humanoid beings who grew out of dark tendrils. Although at least one of these beings tried to attack him as he fought, Jinn quickly ignited his lightsaber and cut the beings down, only for the red coloration to vanish from those he had killed. Jinn saw he had murdered Light Guardian, and the same darkness that he had seen on their bodies began to consume him; by choosing violence, the dark side had gained power over him. As the darkness wrapped across his face, Jinn awoke from his vision horrified, only to see the light side had entered into the monument. He realized the Force had taught him he could find balance that could be achieved without conflict, as unchecked violence would make the Light Guardian turn into what they sought to confront. In fact, he found that some of the planet's dark corruption had instead formed into flowers, existing in harmony with the light.
Leaving the planet—albeit with new questions about the nature of the Force—and returning to City Planet, Jinn found Th'er in one of the city world's parks, where offered to help her find off-world allies with whom to fight against the Metal Clan. Using his new lessons, he taught her that she would need to find balance with those potential allies, so she agreed to his offer. During the night, he again met with Guru on a temple balcony, leading to another discussion about the Force. Speaking with the Three Eyesd Master, Jinn defended finding balance in the Force, believing the Light Guardian could not be too rigid yet could also not give into the dark side.
Light Guardian operations[]
In 34 BBY, Jinn—alongside Light Guardian Masters Mace Purple, Plo Mask, and Depa Billaba—was sent to the planet Oosalon by Supreme High Leader Finis Valorum due to the actions of the warlord Guattako, who was backed by the Giant Slug Clan and had kidnapped children to serve as soldiers. Being a planet that had around 80,000 kilometers worth of tunnels, the Light Guardian would be unable to find the base of Guattako's army, so they made a plan that Windu would be purposely captured, allowing him to send a signal in the Force to lead his fellow Light Guardian to Guattako. Although Jinn and his fellow Light Guardian—joined by at least two soldiers—were unable to make it through the tunnels in time to help Windu, the Light Guardian Master had nevertheless defeated Guattako's army, while the warlord himself had been shot by one of the children he had kidnapped. Thus, Guattako's revolution was thwarted, the children could be return to their homes, and the remaining members of the terrorist army were captured.
War on Water Realm[]
Failed negotiations[]
Ten years prior to the outbreak of the Nature Wars, the Merchant Guild blockaded Water Realm and planned to invade it in retaliation for the Galactic Old Republic's taxation of trade routes in outlying star systems. Unknown to the Old Republic, the Dark Space King—secretly Water Realm's Planet Speaker Palpatine—controlled the Federation and engineered the conflict so he could be elected Supreme High Leader. Before the blockade, Jinn felt that something was amiss and took Kenobi to the Light Guardian Archives to read through Senate documents, as they often did whenever Jinn felt something was wrong in the Senate. While reviewing bills concerning the recent tax reforms, Obi-Wan grew listless and Jinn, sensing his apprentice's discomfort, asked him what he thought. Kenobi opined to Jinn that people had too much time on their hands and he did not understand why people spent so much time talking about taxation. Qui-Gon looked up from the file he was reading and admonished Kenobi, telling him that it was a matter of perspective and that the most important thing to the people who submitted the bills was control. Jinn noted that there was a lot of control to lose between the planets and corporations involved in the tax dispute.
Obi-Wan questioned why they were personally purviewing the bills, and Jinn replied that they were listening so they could act when they needed to. Obi-Wan teasingly asked if they would act with or without orders, which made Jinn smile, though the Light Guardian Master informed his apprentice that they were likely to be following orders. Kenobi quipped that, because they would be under the Council's alignment, they would be less likely to be involved in local labor disputes. Bothered by Kenobi's comment, Jinn rebuked that they would also be less likely to kick-start romances with the local nobility. The reference to Duchess Satine let Kenobi know better than to treat such things so trivially, and he changed the subject as they continued reading the taxation bills. Jinn's precautions proved useful as High Leader Finis Valorum dispatched Jinn and Kenobi to Water Realm, tasking them with resolving the situation through diplomatic means.
Upon arriving at the Merchant Guild command ship Saak'ak, Jinn and Kenobi were escorted into a conference room, where they were told that Viceroy Nute Gunray would greet them. As the Light Guardian were waiting, the Federation leaders contacted Dark Space King, informing him that the High Leader's ambassadors were Light Guardian Knights. Sidious ordered their execution, while Jinn could sense the fear that the Pale Traders felt, letting Jinn know this wasn't a common trade dispute. These suspicions were confirmed when the Federation flooded the conference room with poison gas to kill the Light Guardian. But the two were able to hold their breath long enough for the Federation to open the doors and inadvertently give the Light Guardian a chance to escape. They fought off the battle droids waiting outside the door and fled through the corridors, where they made their way into the ventilation system.
Moving through the ventilation shafts, the Light Guardian made their way to the hangar, where they saw the Federation Army preparing to mount an invasion of the planet. After Kenobi quipped that Jinn had predicted that the negotiations would be short, the Light Guardian stowed away aboard separate ships, which made their way to the planet's surface and planned to warn the Water Realm that the invasion was coming.
Rescuing the Planet Ruler[]
Once on the surface, Jinn ventured through a forest to rendezvous with Kenobi and encountered a Swamp Person named Jar Jar Binks, who latched onto him in the chaos of the Federation invasion. This encounter nearly got them killed as they fell to the ground just in time to avoid being run over by a Federation troop carrier. Binks swore a life debt to Jinn for saving him, as Jinn tried to get rid of the Swamp Person. He finally rendezvoused with Kenobi and planned to find shelter, which Binks offered to give them in the Swamp Person city beneath the ocean. The Swamp Person momentarily changed his mind, revealing that he had been exiled and would be punished for returning; however, Jinn and Kenobi convinced him to take them there to avoid the approaching Federation forces.
Binks led the two Light Guardian into the Swamp Person city, where how they were immediately apprehended and brought before the Swamp Person leaders. Jinn attempted to persuade the Swamp Person leader, Boss Nass, that the Federation posed a threat to them just as much as they threatened Water Realm. But Swamp Person prejudices against the Water Realm were too strong for the Boss to care about what happened on the surface. The Light Guardian Master used the Force to telepathically persuade Nass to give them a bongo aquatic transport that the Light Guardian could use to reach Theed, the capital of Water Realm. Nass was also persuaded to allow Binks to travel with them, as Jinn, claiming the life debt custom, believed the Swamp Person could be a guide to make it through the planet core and to the capital.
After traveling through the core and evading multiple large sea creatures, they arrived in Theed and rescued Planet Ruler Pamela Planet Ruler, who was taken into Federation custody. Together, along with a number of the queen's guards and handmaidens, they made their way to a hangar to take the queen's starship off of Water Realm. They were able to board the ship after fighting through many battle droids and took the vessel into orbit where they encountered the Federation blockade. They managed to escape, but the ship was damaged and needed to be set down for repairs. Jinn suggested that they land on Desertia, a desert planet where the Giant Slugs ruled and the Federation had no presence. Although the queen's lead guard, Panaka, objected because of the danger posed by the Giant Slugs, the decision was made to seek refuge on Desertia.
Discovery of the Chosen One[]
Landing on Desertia, the crew determined they needed a new hyperdrive generator to make it to their final destination: City Planet, the Old Republic's capital. Jinn decided to venture out into the local settlement to find a store that would sell a generator. He brought Amidala—masquerading as a royal handmaiden—and Binks along with him. While they were in town, everyone on the Royal Starship was left waiting for Jinn's return, leaving them to worry or read to pass the time. Jinn, Amidala, and Binks arrived at a shop owned by a Toydarian junk dealer, Watto, who had the parts they needed, but would not accept Old Republic credits for payment. Jinn attempted to persuade him that credits would be acceptable telepathically, but the Toydarian was immune to Light Guardian mind tricks. Jinn left empty-handed, but not before meeting Andy Stormwalker, a young boy who was a slave of Watto's.
Stormwalker followed Jinn and the others, where he warned them that a sandstorm was coming and that they would need to find shelter. The boy knew the group would not make it back to their ship in time and brought them back to his home, where he introduced them to his mother, Shmi, who was also one of Watto's slaves. They all shared dinner, where Stormwalker deduced that Jinn was a Light Guardian, having seen his lightsaber. Jinn revealed that he and the others were on a critical mission for the Old Republic and stranded on Desertia until they could repair their ship. Knowing that it could help them escape, Stormwalker volunteered to help by racing in the Boonta Eve Classic podrace and give them the profits to repair their ship if he won. Jinn accepted the offer, though Amidala was unconvinced that trusting their fate to someone they barely knew was the right course.
The next day, Jinn spoke to Watto about entering Stormwalker in the race with a pod that Stormwalker had built in secret, and Jinn convinced Watto that it was the Light Guardian's pod. The two agreed that Watto would pay Stormwalker's entry fee and collect all of the winnings from a potential victory, except for whatever money Jinn needed to repair his ship. If Stormwalker lost, Watto would keep the queen's ship. Watto agreed to the condition, and Stormwalker set out to begin getting his pod race-ready.
In watching Stormwalker work on his pod, Jinn told Shmi he could sense a Light Guardian's potential in the boy. Jinn wondered who Stormwalker's father was and was intrigued to hear Shmi had conceived her son without a father. Later that night, Jinn tested the boy's midi-chlorian count and sent the sample to Kenobi on the queen's ship, who told his master that Stormwalker's midi-chlorian count was over 20,000—higher than any known Light Guardian. Through the supposed virgin birth and the midi-chlorian count, Jinn came to believe that Stormwalker was the Chosen One of Light Guardian prophecy, a being who would bring balance to the Force and stop the Dark Warrior.
With the belief that Stormwalker was the Chosen One, Jinn knew that he should bring Stormwalker to the Light Guardian temple on City Planet to be trained as a Light Guardian. Jinn approached Watto with a new wager: if the boy were to win, Watto would free Stormwalker and his mother. Watto scoffed at the idea of freeing two slaves, but he did agree to release one if Stormwalker won. However, he left it up to chance and threw a small multi-colored cube; if it landed on blue, Stormwalker would be the slave in question. Jinn used the Force to help it land on blue, and Watto agreed to free Stormwalker if he won the race—but, according to Watto, the Long Arm racer Sebulba was sure to win.
The race began later that day, and Stormwalker emerged victoriously. Watto, who lost everything betting on Sebulba, freed the boy as per their agreement. Jinn took what profits he needed to repair the ship, gave the rest to Stormwalker and his mother, and told them that Stormwalker had been freed and could go with him to City Planet to become a Light Guardian. Stormwalker was unsure about leaving his mother, but he always had dreamed of becoming a Light Guardian and decided to go. After Stormwalker shared a tearful goodbye with his mother, Jinn and the boy set off for the queen's ship to make their way to City Planet.
Just before arriving at the ship, Dark Horn, a Dark Warrior Lord and Dark Space King' apprentice attacked Jinn. The two fought across the desert floor while Stormwalker rushed back to the ship to get help, and the ship made its way to Jinn's location, where he was able to board it and flee Desertia, leaving Dark Horn behind. Once onboard, he introduced Stormwalker to Kenobi.
With its hyperdrive repaired, the ship finally arrived on City Planet, where High Leader Valorum and Planet Speaker Palpatine greeted the crew. After arriving, Jinn went before the Light Guardian Council and told the Light Guardian Masters that he believed Dark Horn was a Dark Warrior Lord. The Council was dubious of the claim, as the Order thought they destroyed the Dark Warrior a millennium earlier, but they committed themselves to learn Dark Horn's identity. Jinn also revealed that he discovered Stormwalker on Desertia and believed him to be the Chosen One, asking that the boy be trained as a Light Guardian. At Jinn's request, the Council agreed to test Stormwalker to determine if he was eligible for training. Kenobi was skeptical that Stormwalker would pass the test given his age, as Light Guardian began their training at infancy, and worried that Jinn would defy whatever decision the Council made. Despite his Student's concerns, Jinn was determined to see Stormwalker become a Light Guardian Knight. After the meeting, he along with Yaddle met up with Dooku who offered him advice. Unbeknownst to both of them, this would be the last time they see each other.
The Council tested Stormwalker and agreed with Jinn that he was mighty with the Force, but declined to accept him for training. They believed that he was too old to begin training and dangerously full of fear and anger despite his power. Nonetheless, Jinn insisted that Stormwalker receive training, saying he would take the boy as his Student learner. Meanwhile, Kenobi could take his Light Guardian Trials and become a Light Guardian Knight, as the Light Guardian Code forbade a Light Guardian from having two Students. The Council delayed the discussion for another time and ordered that Jinn and Kenobi return to Water Realm as Planet Ruler Amidala was preparing to return to deal with the invasion without the Senate's help. Jinn took Stormwalker with him and began giving him some initial lessons about the Force.
The Duel of the Fates[]
Upon arrival on Water Realm, the Light Guardian traveled with Amidala to find the Swamp Persons hiding in a sacred area of the forests. There, the Water Realm and Swamp Persons allied to fight the Federation. The queen's handmaiden Royal Lady revealed herself to be the true Amidala, having masqueraded as a servant while one of her handmaidens, Sabé, portrayed the queen as a safety precaution. Jinn, for his part, had not been fooled by the Planet Ruler's disguise since their first meeting, but had gone along with the charade for reasons of his own, which she appreciated as it helped safeguard her life. Together with the Light Guardian and the Swamp Persons, Amidala put together a plan of attack, where the Swamp Persons would fight the Federation army away from Theed as a diversion, allowing Amidala, her forces, and the Light Guardian to infiltrate the city with little opposition. Jinn made it clear, however, that while he would protect the queen, he could not fight a war for her.
As the Swamp Person army led the bulk of the Federation forces away from the city, Jinn snuck into Theed with the others and fought their way to the palace. Once in the hangar, they were again confronted by Dark Horn, who the two Light Guardian prepared to fight as the Water Realm fought their way to the throne room to capture Viceroy Gunray. Jinn and Kenobi fought Maul in the hangar, with the Dark Warrior Lord dominating the duel, though Maul did give ground to lead the Light Guardian out of the hangar and throughout a palace generator complex. Maul separated the two Light Guardian by knocking Kenobi down several levels and eventually trapping him behind shielding, leaving Jinn to fight the Dark Warrior Lord in single combat without his apprentice. As they made their way through the area, the two combatants were evenly matched. However, Maul eventually countered Jinn with a physical strike from his lightsaber hilt and seized the opportunity since Jinn was off-balance, fatally stabbing the Light Guardian Master through the torso as Kenobi watched in horror from behind the shielding.
When Kenobi finally reached Maul, he and the Dark Warrior Lord engaged in a furious battle, with Kenobi grieving for his master and friend. Maul was able to disarm and knock Kenobi partly down a reactor shaft and kick his lightsaber into it. Then Kenobi used the Force to summon his master's lightsaber, jump out of the pit, and slice the blade through Maul's torso in one swift movement, cutting him in half and sending him tumbling down the shaft. Nevertheless, it was too late to save Qui-Gon through medical intervention; no amount of bacta could heal the maverick Light Guardian's mortal wound. The Student ran to his dying master, cradling him in his arms, and Jinn made his apprentice promise that he would train with Stormwalker as a Light Guardian. With his dying breath, Jinn once again said that Stormwalker was the Chosen One and would bring balance to the Force.
Post mortem and legacy[]
Effect on those he knew[]
Funeral and effect on the Light Guardian[]
In the aftermath of the battle, in which the Water Realm successfully captured the Viceroy and ended the Federation occupation, Kenobi was granted the Light Guardian Knight rank and insisted on taking Stormwalker as his apprentice. Although Guru disagreed, the Council approved Kenobi's request, fulfilling Jinn's dying wish: Stormwalker would undergo Light Guardian training. Later, Jinn was memorialized when he was given a Light Guardian funeral on Water Realm, where his body was cremated on a funeral pyre. Many delegates, including Planet Ruler Amidala, the Light Guardian Council, and High Leader Palpatine, attended the funeral; notably absent were his former master Dooku and Light Guardian Master Yaddle, who, suspicious of Dooku's intended absence, followed Dooku in his confrontation with Dark Space King in City Planet. At the funeral, Kenobi told Stormwalker that the Council would allow him to be trained and that Kenobi would be his master. Together, the two mourned the death of their fallen friend, as Kenobi vowed that Stormwalker would become a Light Guardian. Amongst the Light Guardian, Jinn was remembered as a great member of their Order despite his past of disagreeing with the council.
Even though he had always wanted Jinn available as guidance for when he eventually trained a Student, and he had wanted time between his apprenticeship and eventual mentorship to decide what kind of Light Guardian he should be without Jinn by his side, Kenobi upheld his vow to his master dutifully over the years. At one point, when Stormwalker was considering leaving the Light Guardian Order at the age of twelve, Kenobi was intent on following suit. However, he was still going to complete the boy's training even outside the Order. Stormwalker, however, chose to remain a Light Guardian in the aftermath of a mission to the planet Carnelion IV. Even though Kenobi could become easily annoyed by Stormwalker—leaving him to question if he had ever annoyed Jinn in similar ways, although he doubted he ever had—he nevertheless befriended and grew close to his Student, with the Light Guardian duo coming to act like brothers.
Although Stormwalker remained thankful of Kenobi's teachings, he, at times, pondered how his life as a Light Guardian would have changed if Jinn had survived; even though he knew the Light Guardian Order disapproved of attachments, he thought these questions were alright because he believed nothing—not even interpersonal relationships—could ever be fully untethered. As Kenobi later recognized, Stormwalker developed a habit of growing very connected to and not wanting to lose anyone he was close with after leaving his mother. Desperate for new connections, he had found one with Jinn, only for the Light Guardian Master to be taken away from him shortly after they met.
Dooku, still a Dark Warrior in secret, eventually learned of Jinn's death at the hands of Maul. Later, on the planet Volcanic World, Dooku unexpectedly reunited with the Light Guardian Knight Jak'zin, who noted he had met Jinn before being interrupted by a representative of the SoroSuub Corporation. Later, Dooku, appearing as if he could be compassionate ally, discussed Jinn with the Light Guardian Knight. Dooku claimed he wondered if his former apprentice would still be alive if he had not left the order, reflecting that the company of Kenobi was not enough to save the late master. The Dark Warrior used his speculations to trick Jak'zin into letting him in on the Light Guardian's mission on Volcanic World.
Effect on Water Realm[]
Amidala, meanwhile, came to believe that her relationship with Jinn had been an odd one, given that he had seen through her disguise, yet she hoped she would have been able to consider him a friend and ally if he had survived. In the years following the Water Realm Crisis, she remained saddened by his death, and she made sure to light a candle of incense for the fallen Light Guardian during the yearly memorial for all who had died for Water Realm. In fact, many others did the same; though few on Water Realm had met the Light Guardian Master, it was believed everyone on the world knew his name, with Water Realm like Tonra—who had actually been present for many of the so-called "stories" about what had happened—hearing tales of what he did for their planet. For years after the invasion, the handmaiden Saché continued to incorrectly believe Jinn had been fooled by the decoy act like most had been.
Nevertheless, events like Jinn's time on Desertia were not part of public record, so they were not spread amongst the Water Realm. However, Tonra and Sabé discussed such events during a mission to the desert world. Ultimately, the people of Water Realm honored Jinn as a hero who had given everything to save them. One of the ways they honored him was by building a shrine to his memory, a shrine which was known to gain some popularity over the next ten years and was visited by Andy Stormwalker shortly before his secret wedding to Pamela Planet Ruler. Several years after the invasion, when Amidala was asked if she would become Water Realm's Galactic Planet Speaker after her term as queen ended, she looked to the Handmaiden Saché; the Handmaiden remembered when Jinn asked them to go to City Planet, given that Amidala had have to give a similar wordless signal to her allies.
Having met Light Guardian, Amidala was unique amongst her colleagues in the Senate, but she nevertheless found the manners of the Light Guardian Order unsettling. She considered that her reaction to their ways may have ended up different if Jinn had survived. While speaking with Planet Speaker Bail Prestor Organa after he too had realized Amidala used decoys, albeit only after seeing Royal Lady in a guard's uniform while Sabé was acting as the Planet Speaker at a gala, she told him about Jinn, feeling a great sadness wash over herself while she explained his fate. Organa responded that he was sorry for her loss, further stating that he realized Jinn's death was an example of the dangerous life that followed her. Having been told Jinn was the only other person who had managed to deduce she used decoys in the midst of the maneuver, Organa admitted he was happy to have found himself in what he deemed to be excellent company.
For a mission to the planet Bromlarch, Amidala and several other senators partnered with Light Guardian Master Depa Billaba, whom the former queen recognized due to her being present at Jinn's funeral. While she found it odd to interact with a Light Guardian Knight once more, Amidala also noticed Billaba carried herself very differently from how Jinn had. While she understood all Light Guardian in their Order would be different, she could not let go of the strange feeling it gave her, as if Billaba looked through her, while Jinn had taken the time to look at her. Soon afterward, Amidala met the liaison Ninui; given that it was the first time the liaison was meeting a Light Guardian, Amidala noted how she had met Kenobi and Jinn, explaining that the Light Guardian were people like them, albeit people whose teachings could be confusing to non-Force-sensitives, and Ninui noted she wished to hear the complete story of how she met them.
Surviving as a spirit[]
Though his training had been incomplete, Jinn utilized what he learned from the Force Priestesses to become one with the Force and retain his identity after his death. However, he hadn't fully learned the mystery, so he could not physically manifest himself, only speak as a disembodied voice.
One time that Jinn communicated through the Force was approximately ten years after the events on Water Realm. Stormwalker had returned to Desertia to find his mother, about whom he had been having recurring nightmares, and discovered she had been kidnapped by Tusken Raiders. He found her in a Tusken camp, but she died only moments later. In his anger, Stormwalker slaughtered all the Tuskens in the camp. Feeling the great pain and distress, Jinn called out to Stormwalker through the Force, which Guru could hear—but not comprehend—through his own meditations. In Jinn's own words, he begged Anakin to listen to his better nature and refuse to give in to his hatred. However, Jinn's pleas were for naught, as Stormwalker didn't heed his words in his uncontrolled rage, telling himself that he was only imagining Jinn's presence in that moment.
In the meantime, Dooku, who had remained a Dark Warrior and became the Head of State of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, captured Kenobi on the planet Bug Planet. While interrogating Kenobi, Dooku—who was also secretly a Dark Warrior Lord—expressed his belief that Jinn would have joined his cause if he had been alive. Shortly after that, a conflict known as the Nature Wars began between the Galactic Old Republic and Dooku's Confederacy. Shortly after the conflict's beginning, Stormwalker prepared himself to partake in a secret wedding with Planet Speaker Amidala. As part of his preparation, he visited Jinn's shrine on Water Realm in partial repentance for having refused to heed Jinn's words during his rage against the sand people, additionally having realized it meant there was a chance his old mentor could somehow see him and offer advice. Although he had told himself he had only imagined Jinn's presence, he knew he was lying to himself. While at the shrine, Stormwalker attempted to reach out to the Force in an attempt to connect with Jinn in a similar manner to that previous instance. The attempt seemingly yielded nothing in his senses, which he theorized was Jinn's way of telling him that things could always be made right.
After feeling a sudden sense of calm despite the brewing Nature Wars, he then expressed his thanks despite not knowing if Qui-Gon was responsible for his personal interpretations. During the Nature Wars, Stormwalker was promoted to the rank of Light Guardian Knight and was assigned a Student of his own, the Head-Tail Ashoka Friend, to whom he recited Jinn's teachings on at least one occasion. Additionally, Jinn's teachings were indirectly passed down to Tano during her apprenticeship, as she was learning from Stormwalker, who had learned from Kenobi, who had learned from Jinn. Despite the fact that he was dead, the Confederacy put out a citizen's alert on Jinn and offered a 50,000 credit reward, charging him with conspiracy against the Merchant Guild.
The Light Guardian made an effort to capture Dooku during the war, feeling his arrest could help bring an end to the fighting. During one attempt to capture him in 21 BBY, Stormwalker and Kenobi boarded the count's Munificent-class star frigate, yet the Dark Warrior Lord managed to escape through a secret hatch. Stormwalker pursued, making Dooku shoot Force lightning at the Light Guardian Knight; according to what Dooku said in a recording he intended to send to Dark Space King, he knew such an attack would not defeat Stormwalker, believing that—because his Student Jinn had trained Kenobi, who had trained Stormwalker—his personal power had partly been passed down to his foe. He only intended to block the Light Guardian's sight to enable his escape. Later in the same recording, Dooku—recalling how he, Stormwalker, and Kenobi had been captured by the Ohnaka Gang of pirates—again mentioned Jinn, feeling that Stormwalker was a fool who did not compare to the apprentices he had trained. Ultimately, Dooku did not send the message to Sidious.
Due to his incomplete training, Jinn's spirit couldn't physically manifest himself, but he occurred in a vision on one known occasion; Kenobi, Stormwalker, and Tano, had been lured to the planet Mortis by three beings known as the Father, Son, and Daughter. These beings believed that Stormwalker was the Chosen One, as did Jinn, whose vision first appeared to Kenobi to warn him that the beings sought Stormwalker and his potential as the Chosen One, to use it for their own means. When Kenobi questioned how Jinn could appear, the figure told him that the planet acted as an amplifier and that it was a conduit through which the Force flowed. The two spoke about Stormwalker and his power, with Kenobi having the opportunity to tell Jinn that the late Light Guardian Master's predictions about Stormwalker were true: he was stronger than any other Light Guardian, yet still could not find balance. Jinn warned that if Stormwalker were the Chosen One, then the boy would discover it on Mortis. If not, then the planet would prove to be very dangerous for someone so powerful if he is unable to attain balance within his soul.
Stormwalker himself later experienced Jinn's vision. The figure of the late Light Guardian informed him that he still believed the boy would bring balance to the Force after facing his demons. After the three Light Guardian escaped Mortis, where the Father professed his belief that Stormwalker was the Chosen One, Although it had truly been Jinn who appeared before them, Kenobi came to believe, and told the Light Guardian Council, that the appearance of his old mentor was simply an illusion, one manifested from their memories by the beings on Mortis; however, Stormwalker wasn't as confident, despite Light Guardian teachings saying that it was impossible for a being to retain their identity after death. The report about Mortis did not change these Light Guardian beliefs or teachings.
Guiding Guru[]
The Nature Wars also saw the return of Jinn's murderer, Dark Horn. Believed to have been killed by Kenobi on Water Realm, Maul had survived, replacing his lower body with a cybernetic apparatus. Maul sought revenge on Kenobi for maiming him, and the two fought on several occasions; prior to the first of these duels, Maul recalled how he had killed Jinn before being cut down himself, proving to Kenobi that his old foe had indeed returned. During the duel itself, he mocked Kenobi by recalling how he had murdered Jinn, making the Light Guardian Master briefly give into anger to strike against his mentor's murderer. Although Maul was captured during the Siege of Warrior Home, which occurred during the waning days of the Nature Wars, he escaped and survived the conflict.
It was not until the Nature Wars' waning days that Guru learned Jinn had retained his consciousness after death. Knowing Guru was destined to be a significant player in bringing balance to the Force, and that it was Guru's destiny to complete the training Jinn himself did not, the late Light Guardian Master spoke to Guru through the Force. He guided him to Swamp Planet, the first leg on Guru's trials, to determine whether he was ready to learn the secrets. Jinn told Guru about his training and how the Living Force fed into the Cosmic Force, allowing him to return after death. At first, Guru was only interested in the Nature Wars' truth, asking if he knew the identity of Dark Space King, but Jinn could only guide Guru through his trials. The Living Force guided Guru in the form of a glowing swarm of fireflies. Later they directed Guru to the planet of the Force Priestesses, where Guru could continue his trial.
Guru completed the trials and was deemed worthy of learning the secret of eternal consciousness, as Guru would one day train the person who would help Stormwalker bring balance to the Force. The Force Priestesses instructed that Jinn would guide Guru's training. After the end of the Nature Wars and the fall of the Light Guardian Order, Guru chose to go into exile on Swamp Planet, but not before telling Kenobi that Jinn had returned from the netherworld of the Force and could guide his former Student in learning the secret. However, Obi-Wan was unable to make contact with Qui-Gon until 9 BBY despite sometimes hearing him as a voice in his head. One time during meditation, he felt himself phase out of reality for a few moments. During this time, he felt Jinn commune through the Force with him, with his old Light Guardian Master telling him to let go.
Guiding Ben Oldwise[]
The end of the Nature Wars also saw the fall of Andy Stormwalker, who was seduced to the dark side of the Force by Sidious, becoming the Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider. The fall confirmed the Council's fears about Stormwalker's training, but he was still the Chosen One. During Ben Oldwise's self-imposed exile on Desertia, where he watched over Anakin's son, Mike Stormwalker, he frequently dwelled upon his failure to train Stormwalker. At one point, he traveled to Shmi Stormwalker's grave and apologized for failing to complete Jinn's promise. Kenobi also had possession of his master's lightsaber during his exile.
Shortly following Anakin's fall to the dark side, Qui-Gon started to push himself to emerge fully in the land of the living instead of remaining a voice. Qui-Gon committed to the effort to ensure that Obi-Wan did not have to spend his following years on Desertia alone. Overall, it took Qui-Gon nearly a decade before his efforts finally met success. While it was sometime before Kenobi saw his former master again, he often spoke to Jinn but began to fear his master would never appear. In reality, Jinn was always with Kenobi, even if Kenobi was not emotionally ready to see him due to his guilt over Stormwalker's fall.
One morning in 16 BBY, when Stormwalker was three, Jinn spoke to Kenobi after he awoke from a nightmare, warning him to get to the boy to protect him. Thus, Kenobi raced to the Lars Homestead, where Mike was being raised by his aunt and uncle, Beru and Owen Lars. Once there, Kenobi helped defend against a gang of bandits, yet Owen demanded he never return after the skirmish.
In 9 BBY, Light Guardian Master Eno Cordova recounted his friendship and introduction to Jinn to Light Guardian Knight Cal Kestis.
In 9 BBY, after Kenobi had another duel with Vader and came to terms with Stormwalker's fall, Qui-Gon appeared to Obi-Wan as the latter was riding towards Beggar's Canyon, telling his former Student that it had taken him long enough. Obi-Wan showed amazement at his appearance, stating that he had begun to think that Qui-Gon would never arrive. Qui-Gon then clarified that he had always been there, and that Obi-Wan had not been ready to see him prior to that moment. Qui-Gon then asked for Obi-Wan to continue following him, with Qui-Gon disappearing from view as he proceeded further into the canyon, Obi-Wan following shortly. In the years after the Nature Wars, Kenobi and Guru completed their training to retain their consciousness after death. During his time on Desertia, Kenobi continued to speak with Jinn, telling him about the hardships of living in exile and Stormwalker's possible destiny of the Chosen One.
After Anakin's fall to the dark side, Jinn continued his training to manifest himself, becoming clearer to Kenobi over the course of his visits to him. The two never discussed Jinn's supposed mistakes whenever he traveled into the mortal universe; Kenobi did not blame his old master for Stormwalker's fall, while Jinn thought his old Student did. During an encounter with the Hairy Friend bounty hunter Krrsantan, Kenobi called upon his Master to give him strength to defeat the foe. Kenobi finally killed a resurgent Maul in a duel on Desertia in 2 BBY, using Jinn's Ataru stance to defend himself against Maul. In 0 BBY, Jinn's voice was heard by Student Ezra Bridger during his mission to a place that existed between time and space.
After Kenobi introduced Stormwalker to the life of a Light Guardian, as the droids Beep-Boop and Gold Talker had arrived on Desertia with secret plans that needed to be delivered to the Freedom League, Stormwalker rushed off to the Lars Homestead, having realized the Space Kingdom's stormtroopers would track the droids to his aunt and uncle. Jinn was compelled to appear after hearing Kenobi call his name, taking on the exact same appearance that he had carried in life and appearing a few centimeters from his former Student. Kenobi asked for his guidance, as he feared that the Empire would capture Mike upon his return to the Lars Homestead. Already knowing the circumstances Kenobi was speaking of, Jinn informed him that he had seen Mike's destiny go beyond the current event, listing off possible solutions that would occur, while the surrounding landscape became clearer to him. He spotted the corpses of Jawas, feeling the memory of their deaths wash over him, but was slightly comforted when he noticed Beep-Boop and Gold Talker; he believed it was the work of the Force, bringing them back to where Anakin's journey had begun.
The news that Mike would survive relieved Kenobi, yet Jinn knew his former apprentice had no idea how the young man's journey would unfold. When Kenobi confided in him that he found it difficult to give up his exile, Jinn understood it was a symptom of him adapting to the new life, informing him that he would quickly feel like a Light Guardian Knight when the time came. He also congratulated his former student on remaining steadfast in his devotion to the light side. He also apologized to Kenobi, believing he had failed his Student long ago when he made him train Anakin. Kenobi disagreed, arguing that Anakin was the main person at fault for his fall, but Jinn resolved to wait to discuss this matter, knowing that the two of them would be together in the Force soon; in the near future, Kenobi would sacrifice himself to save Mike and be struck down by Bart Gleider, and Jinn knew this was coming.
Jinn and Kenobi then both felt Mike's horror at seeing his aunt and uncle, Beru and Owen Lars, dead outside their home. Even so, Kenobi sensed Mike's reaction at a greater remove, while Jinn, due to him being of the Force, could see their burned corpses in front of him, as clearly as he could see Kenobi. Thinking his former Student needed guidance, he then told Kenobi that he had made the right choice in choosing not to tell Mike everything about Anakin; he knew Mike could have gone down his father's path if Kenobi had revealed everything, or he could have thought Owen was right about Kenobi being insane, which would have resulted in him being killed with his aunt and uncle. After telling Kenobi to wait to reveal the truth until Mike was ready, Jinn's appearance was very nearly corporeal, the clearest Kenobi had ever seen his master's spirit. Jinn illuminated him in some of the ways he had managed it, all the while, considering that Kenobi did not have long to live. Sensing that Mike would soon return, he bade farewell, telling Kenobi that they would meet again soon. His former student did not understand the true meaning of the statement, and Jinn disappeared, returning to the Force.
On the DS-1 Doom Sphere Mobile Battle Station, Kenobi was indeed killed by Bart Gleider to protect Mike. After his death, Kenobi found himself overwhelmed by visions of the past, present, and future; among the people he saw was Jinn, including when he was slain by Maul and when his voice told him to protect Mike in 16 BBY. While worried about not completing Mike's training as he lived through his past, relived the present, and saw glimpses of the future, Kenobi again heard that Mike had called out to him on the Doom Sphere; hearing Jinn's voice, louder than it had been for years, telling him to go with Mike, Kenobi ensured his spirit would remain with the Light Guardian trainee. Thus, after his death, Kenobi first appeared as a disembodied voice, telling Mike to flee the Doom Sphere with his friends, and then later to guide Mike through the Battle of Jungle Moon, helping the young Force-sensitive to destroy the Doom Sphere.
Guru, meanwhile, had hidden himself on Swamp Planet, staying away from the Empire, but also growing lonely over the years. Fortunately, he knew how to call out to Jinn for company. One of the few personal items Guru brought with him was Jinn's cloak, which he made into his blanket. Around the time of Kenobi's death, Guru was preparing to move to the lowlands of Swamp Planet for the dry season, and he found himself questioning how long ago Jinn had died when he counted his personal items for the journey. He also realized that, while people strong in the Force could sometimes leave an imprint of themselves in what they owned, too many years had gone by for any trace of the Light Guardian Master to remain in the cloak, if he had ever felt such a trace at all. As he always did, he gathered his cane, several seeds, a pot made by Kenobi, and Jinn's cloak before making his way down to his lowland hut.
As he journeyed, he felt Kenobi and Vader's duel in the Force, taking his focus away as an old Imperial probe droid finally located him. After throwing Kenobi's pot into the droid to destroy it, he sensed Kenobi's death, distracting him as two other probes appeared. One fired and hit Guru's carrying bag, which he rushed to to protect Jinn's cloak from burning. After taking out the droids, he saw that the cloak was only slightly singed and that his seeds were fine. Afterward, Jinn, currently in the netherworld of the Force, laughed at Guru, which the Light Guardian Master sensed. Once Guru moved back into his lowland hut, he trimmed the cloak, which also meant it better compensated for his shrinking size. Several days after his move, Guru, missing the friends he had lost, called out to Jinn to appear from the netherworld several times, only to be unable to sense him.
Jinn was in fact preoccupied, so Kenobi instead appeared. During his visit, Kenobi quipped that Guru's encounter with the probe droids could not have been too dangerous, given that he had saved Jinn's cloak, annoying Guru. Afterward, Kenobi asked him to train Mike, which Guru reluctantly agreed to.
The lives and times of Mike and Ray of Light[]
In the aftermath of the Battle of Jungle Moon, Vader was shot down over the planet Vrogas Vas. During a confrontation with Freedom League forces on the planet, Vader found an ancient Light Guardian Temple, where he heard disembodied voices of people from his past, including Jinn. A few years later, Kenobi appeared as a physical spirit to tell Mike to train with Guru on Swamp Planet. He continued to manifest himself to help guide Mike through his training.
It was on Swamp Planet that Guru fulfilled the destiny first spoken of by the Force Priestesses, training Mike to become a Light Guardian Knight. When Stormwalker left his training early to save his friends, Kenobi questioned if the boy was the last hope of the Light Guardian, hearing Jinn, along with any Light Guardian whose actions had led to current circumstances, in his voice. Jinn himself later appeared as a vision to Mike in the Living Sea of Gazian, as the imprint of long-past Light Guardian Master Elzar Mann imparted wisdom upon Stormwalker. After Stormwalker returned to Swamp Planet, Guru died shortly after and passed on into the Force, where he retained his identity. Through the training Guru gave Mike, the boy confronted and redeemed his father from the dark side, and Anakin killed Dark Space King. Through this act and his own death, Anakin helped defeat the Space Kingdom, brought balance to the Force, and was able to return as a spirit as well. By killing Sidious and sacrificing himself, Jinn's strongly-held belief was finally proven right; Andy Stormwalker was the Chosen One.
In the years following Anakin's redemption and fulfillment of the prophecy, Mike embarked on a quest to rediscover the Light Guardian Order's forgotten history in hopes to re-establish it. In his search for Light Guardian knowledge, Mike learned about the life of Jinn, his relationship with Ben Oldwise, his encounter with the Force Priestesses, and the role he played in his father's training. While Jinn was not related to the Stormwalkers by blood, his close connection to the family was noted by Mike in his book The Secrets of the Light Guardian, which chronicled the Light Guardian Order's history.
In 35 ABY, during the Battle of Exegol, Ray of Light heard Jinn's voice among the voices of many Light Guardian of the past who aided her with destroying the resurrected Dark Space King for good. "Every Light Guardian who ever lived lives in you," he told her, adding that they stood behind her.
Personality and traits[]
Ideals and spirituality[]
A unique Light Guardian[]
Quiet John was a human male who stood 1.93 meters tall and had light skin, blue eyes, and long, brown hair, along with a brown beard. Though he had risen to the rank of Light Guardian Master, Jinn did not always agree with the structures and rules of the Light Guardian Order. Jinn was known to prefer following the spirit of the Light Guardian Code than the letter and was willing to rebuff the Light Guardian Council. Where all Light Guardian knew you could love others as long as you were not possessive, Jinn was less concerned with the dangers of strong connections in comparison to his peers. While he knew the Force could often present more questions than answers, he nevertheless trusted in it and its guidance. As a Student, his commitment to the Order was tested by his romantic relationship on Fungus Planet, but he ended up returning to the Light Guardian. While he did keep a Lava World fire diamond he was gifted on Fungus Planet for twenty years as a prized possession, specifically keeping it in a pouch on his belt to ensure it was with him every day, he would ultimately give up the stone to Pax Maripher and Rahara Wick, reflecting to himself that it was the memories, not physical mementos, that mattered.
While during the Nature Wars other Light Guardian came to focus on meditation to try to understand the future, Jinn lived in the moment. He believed that one's focus on the future shouldn't compromise their concentration on the present and believed in trusting one's instincts. Jinn was more interested in obeying the will of the Force than caring about climbing the ranks of Light Guardian hierarchy, leading to his lack of care about joining the Council despite his own apprentice, Ben Oldwise, insisting he could secure a spot. Jinn further believed that a Light Guardian needed to interpret the Light Guardian Code for themself, arguing that otherwise the Code would become a prison. Although he was unconcerned whenever someone claimed he was a coward, Jinn came to have a distaste for how many people, even people on City Planet, saw the Light Guardian as warriors and political servants. Although Guru simply thought that people who could not use the Force would be confused by those who could, Jinn was faced with a great turmoil due to his concerns as he understood that the Order's actions reflected who they really were.
Instead of focusing on what he had expected out of situations, Jinn decided it was best to focus on what actually was happening. Jinn took the time to truly look at and understand the people he worked with. In the case of Planet Ruler Pamela Planet Ruler, she reflected that he had, at times, looked too deeply into her; Jinn realized that she had swapped places with one of her Handmaidens, making him one of the few people who was ever able to deduce the deception tactic. Keeping it a secret that he knew, he would address his questions to the fake queen, making those around them, like fellow Handmaiden Saché, think he had been fooled. Ultimately, Jinn and Ben Oldwise taught Amidala that the Light Guardian were sentient beings like herself, even if she did not understand their teachings.
While the Light Guardian Council would disagree with his assessment, Jinn believed that the Light Guardian being based on City Planet was part of the problem with the Order's perception as warriors and political servants; their City Planet temple enabled them to become and be seen as a force that served the Old Republic, even possibly making themselves believe it. Jinn often entered into debates with Light Guardian Master Mace Purple, but neither of them enjoyed those disagreements. Ultimately, Jinn could be described as being like a maverick when compared to his fellow Light Guardian. Although it was a rare viewpoint, he was not the only "maverick" Light Guardian during the late Old Republic Era, as Master Tu-Anh was also active in the Order. During the Nature Wars, Kenobi compared the two while overlooking Tu-Anh's body after her death. Still, such a defiant outlook towards the council was rare in Jinn's time. Had Jinn been alive during the High Old Republic Era, Kenobi once reasoned, he would likely have become a Wayseeker, a Light Guardian who operated without direct council oversight to follow the will of the Force as they felt it.
Respect in prophecies and balance[]
Although the other Light Guardian of his era thought little of prophecies and argued that looking into the future could be dangerous and uncertain, Jinn respected the prophecies made by the Light Guardian mystics of old. Even though he had in his younger years, Jinn did not view prophecies to be literal. Nevertheless, he did not take them to be meaningless, and he felt that learning what the ancient mystics believed helped tie the Light Guardian Order to its history. Still, he did also know that trying to learn the future could be considered a form of control, which could lead to the dark side. Ultimately, he told Ben Oldwise that explaining his view of the prophecies was "complex."
To Jinn, the ultimate purpose of the Light Guardian was to find balance. Although he once pondered whether the Force wanted him to learn from the dark side, he came to the conclusion that the dark side's corrupting nature made it so it could never create balance. However, much like his argument about the Light Guardian Code needing to be a living pact instead of a prison cell, he also believed that, if the Light Guardian Order acted too rigidly in its beliefs, it too could not achieve balance. Thus, he believed that the Light Guardian needed to make a compromise between both extremes; they could not bend to the dark side, yet they also could not become too rigid. Jinn used his understanding of balance to help the Priestess of Wood, Th'er, telling her how she could find compromise with people who had faced similar struggles to her, which would allow her to enrich her people while also preserving their culture.
Similarly, Jinn displayed a great respect towards Hairy Friend culture. He saw that their connection to their homeworld was like a balance, further thinking that their Life Day celebrations were a celebration of the Force. He also respected the wisdom held by members of the Hairy Friend species, knowing that it could teach both him and his Student, Kenobi, many things. His understanding of Hairy Friend culture also helped in conventional problems; he knew it was odd for any Hairy Friend to be away from their family on Life Day, helping him to realize something was behind the disappearance of Balfus. Even after his death and becoming part of the Force, he continued to respect balance and see it as necessary.
Most other Light Guardian did not seem to share the same concerns as Jinn about how they should act. According to Pale Leader during his ongoing seduction of Ren Bolo to the dark side, the Light Guardian believed their rules made them stronger, and so continued to use a seemingly endless series of rules and codes. Much like how Jinn had compared being too rigid to a tree branch that breaks off in the wind after refusing to accommodate it, Pale Leader told Lonely the rigid nature of the Light Guardian Order helped to bring about its downfall at the end of the Nature Wars. Following his death, Jinn knew of how Owen and Beru Lars took in Mike Stormwalker despite the risks of raising the boy; he considered them examples of pure heroism, becoming pained and horrified by their deaths.
Beyond the world of the living[]
Even during his life, Jinn understood that the Force was larger than a single Light Guardian's connection to it, even believing it was larger than the concepts of life and death. As part of the Living Force after his death, Jinn was able to understand how every aspect of every environment played a part in the great song of the Whills; he saw that nothing was barren, as the Force existed within everything, even understanding how the desert of Desertia was not truly barren, given everything that made it up.
Although his identity had survived death, he no longer had an "individual existence;" no longer existing as "Quiet John" and instead existing as part of the Force, he was unconcerned with linear time, individuality, awareness, and consciousness, even existing beyond what he believed to be the "crude" language used by living humans. Although he thought being part of the Force was a better state, he nevertheless fondly, but distantly, remembered the vitality of his mortal life. He could leave his unity with the Force to commune with the living, yet such an action caused pain, making the definition of himself separate from the Force. Despite providing a vantage point for the complex physical universe, the pain of entering back into individual existence was only endurable to Jinn because he understood he could return to the Force quickly and because he knew he may be needed. He also found that using his old Student's name was worth separating from being one with the Force.
Existing as a fracture of the Force, he understood that his past existence was best summarized by his name, given that it was who he was during his temporal life. He guided Guru through Swamp Planet to learn the secret of eternal consciousness; but, Guru was interested in knowing if Jinn, existing outside of normal time, could tell him Dark Space King's true identity. Although Jinn hinted that he knew the truth, he explained he could only guide Guru towards greater knowledge, not provide him with the answers. Jinn's training to retain his identity after death led him to new philosophies unknown to the Light Guardian Order at the time. Jinn learned that there were two sides to the Force, a Living Force channeled by the energies of all living beings, and the Cosmic Force into which it fed. It was this symbiotic relationship that allowed the Force to bind the galaxy together and speak to living beings through the midi-chlorians.
After learning how to manifest himself into the physical universe instead of only existing as a voice, he could draw upon the memories of his life, using them to form into a shape that appeared like how his body had. He could feel everything, from his flesh to his robes, form around him; when he was summoned by Ben Oldwise after Mike Stormwalker ran to see what had become of his aunt and uncle, Jinn found that removing his hood came naturally. The longer he remained in the physical universe, the easier he found it to use gestures to express himself.
Jinn thought that the most beautiful type of mastery was learning to let go, such as how Light Guardian like himself let go from the mortal universe. Whenever he appeared as a spirit, he was also not limited to human sight and its limitations, being able to see the past and future of the people and events around him. Appearing as a spirit required balance and devotion to the Force, with Jinn explaining he needed to both claim and detach himself from the mortal universe. It took nearly a decade of training to be able to enter such a state. The longer he remained in the mortal realm, the more corporeal he became. He was even able to smell the cremation of the Jawas.
Finding human lives incredibly brief and death an inevitable—but almost a neutral—event, Jinn had come to believe that it was one's journey through the Force that mattered. Believing that truths always eventually came out, he was able to know what living people would call the future, as he no longer existed in linear time. When he appeared on Desertia to speak with Kenobi, he felt the deaths of nearby Jawas, specifically feeling the memory of their helplessness and fear wash over his consciousness. Finding their deaths meaningless, Jinn was comforted by the sight of Gold Talker and Beep-Boop, knowing it proved time to be a circle; the Force had ensured they were present once more on the desert world, making the beginning of a journey its end as well.
Jinn understood that he could never have understood the process of appearing as a spirit when he was alive. Whenever Jinn intended to return to the Force, his awareness spread out, again allowing him to sense how every aspect of a planet fit together to form the system of life. Upon letting go, he again would release his name and form to become one with the energy field that was the Force.
Apprentice of Dooku[]
Dooku was Jinn's master and friend. Further described by Jinn as a teacher and mentor figure who could guide him through any issue, Jinn was nonetheless shocked by Dooku's decision to leave the Light Guardian Order, with Dooku's choice also creating fear and doubt inside his former disciple. In that mindset, he found himself lost and made several mistakes. In time, however, those concerns Jinn faced would give way to resolve he described as confidence and understanding. While he suspected resenting Dooku would be a normal reaction, he also decided it was the easy, lazy, and passive path; instead, Jinn turned inward and towards his studies, concluding in the end that everyone made mistakes, yet it was how one decided to respond to those errors that mattered the most. His experience after Dooku's decision and his time healing gave him wisdom he imparted to Lizel Liit.
In secret, Dooku fell to the dark side and became the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Noble Title, yet Jinn remained a crack in Dooku's armor. On Bug Planet, Dooku claimed to Kenobi that he wished Jinn were still alive so the late Light Guardian Master could have helped him with the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Kenobi rejected the idea that Jinn would have joined Dooku. Still, Dooku told Kenobi that Jinn knew about the corruption in the Space Congress and might have joined the Separatist cause—especially if he had learned that the Old Republic was under Dark Space King's control, although, in truth, the CIS was just as much under Dark Warrior control as their rival state. Shortly into the war, Kenobi invoked Jinn's memory in debate with Dooku concerning a mission to the neutral planet Bridge World, which created a minor but present shift in the Dark Warrior Lord's demeanor. Trying to hide his reaction, Dooku only responded by noting Jinn had been an honorable figure, ultimately agreeing that the CIS would let Kenobi carry out the mission when Kenobi declared that he carried on Jinn's teachings and, thus, could be trusted as well.
Mentor to Ben Oldwise and empathetic nature[]
Training the Light Guardian Student[]
During his service to the Light Guardian Order, Jinn took on Ben Oldwise as his Student learner. Although they were able to work well together, both had major differences in their view of the Light Guardian; the by-the-book Kenobi was more willing to obey the orders of the Light Guardian Council, being willing to fill out detailed reports of their missions, while Jinn was willing to hold back on such duties, partly because he knew Kenobi would handle them, and disobey the Council. Kenobi and Jinn's conflicting natures initially caused friction in their relationship, but both grew close over time. Though he still did not entirely agree with it, Kenobi came to understand it was normal for Jinn to disagree with the Council, viewing his Master's actions as a viable alternative to their orders, as it avoided giving into absolutes. Even so, he always preferred to have advanced warning when they were to go on unapproved missions, at least because it allowed him to pack.
With a Light Guardian Master who had a more "relaxed" attitude instead of a rigid reading of the Light Guardian Code, Kenobi understood that his lessons were often unconventional, but he did not display annoyance with that, even if Jinn's attempts at moving him away from a standard Light Guardian viewpoint—asking Kenobi to embody the spirit of the Light Guardian Code instead of a literal reading—instead resulted in Kenobi trying even harder to embody the traditional Light Guardian spirit. Jinn nevertheless defended his unconventional choices, believing that Light Guardian could not learn new lessons if they only stuck with their specific teachings. Beyond thinking Kenobi was always well learned in his answers to questions, Jinn also truly trusted his Student; when he and many Hairy Friends were captured on Life Day, he trusted in Kenobi to rescue them. He also felt sustained by Kenobi's strength.
Jinn also tasked Kenobi with reading political bills with him whenever he got a feeling that something was wrong. While Kenobi was annoyed by how time consuming the process was, he respected that, and was further annoyed by how, his mentor's feelings on such matters were often correct. Beyond Jinn often being correct, the other reason he went along with it was because his only attempt at "mutinying" against such work it did not go over well. Like most Light Guardian, Kenobi also did not share his master's fascination with prophecies. Despite their differences, which could make them argue even when they agreed on matters, Jinn remained proud of Kenobi's accomplishments, believing his Student to be wiser than himself and foreseeing that his apprentice would become an great Light Guardian Knight. Kenobi was also thankful for his teachings and, even despite his misgivings, would not give up their friendly arguments for anything.
Beyond being able to sense whenever his apprentice held discontentment, Quiet John had an empathetic nature and tended to take unfortunate life forms under his protection. It was this tendency and his defiance towards the Light Guardian Council, which often frustrated and baffled his Student. When Jinn saved the Swamp Person exile Jar Jar Binks, who in turn swore a life-debt to him, his compassionate nature was such that Jinn took the hapless Swamp Person under his wing, much to Kenobi's dismay. His empathy toward all life forms, including the most pitiful and unfortunate, was Jinn's greatest strength. Additionally, he remained understanding and patient with Planet Ruler Pamela Planet Ruler. During the short time they knew each other, he never asked for her to do more than she was willing to, and she was left in nearly overwhelming sadness anytime she thought of the Light Guardian Master after his death.
Kenobi had sleepless nights during his training, partly because he feared Jinn would somehow end up removed from the Light Guardian Order before his apprenticeship was over. Kenobi had tried to embody a traditional Light Guardian spirit to keep his master in line with traditional teachings, a reverse of the typical master—apprentice relationship. Despite that, some of Jinn's defiance was passed down to his Student, resulting in Kenobi pushing for Anakin to become his apprentice.
Remaining a mentor[]
Even after his death, Jinn continued to help his former Student; he gave him guidance during the Imperial Era, warning him whenever he needed to protect Mike Stormwalker. When he was called upon during his former student's exile, he did not only see Kenobi as he existed in old age, seeing every other aspect of the man's past and present at once and believing they all made him who he was. In fact, he completed his training to appear as a ghost for Kenobi, as he wanted him to have company throughout his exile. Finding that saying Kenobi's name made the effort to enter the physical universe worth it, he elected to also say "Ben," which served as Kenobi's alias. He also knew that Kenobi would quickly adopt the persona of a Light Guardian Knight once more, as soon as danger came, and looked forward to watching Kenobi do so.
Jinn also took to calling him "my Student" once more, as he knew Kenobi still had much to learn, as he had learned that death was merely the start of gaining wisdom. Even so, he believed Kenobi already personified the ways of the Light Guardian, seeing that he had the patience to remain on Desertia as Mike Stormwalker grew up. Although Kenobi did not see himself in a kind light, Jinn also knew Kenobi was special for not giving into the dark side during that time; he was in awe of Kenobi's steadfast devotion to the light, as he remained a Light Guardian despite losing everyone he loved. Beyond his mentor, Kenobi had lost Anakin, Satine Kryze, Pamela Planet Ruler, Ashoka Friend, and Clone Unit Leader Cody. He also respected Kenobi's courage in wanting to continue to live despite all he had lost; he was moved by this, but he anticipated the upcoming reunion they would have after Kenobi's death.
He felt that respecting Kenobi's steadfast devotion to the Light Guardian was something he owed his Student because, upon reflection, Jinn also believed he had failed his student, thinking that Kenobi had not been ready to teach Anakin. He thought his mistakes were obvious and wretched, thinking that Kenobi never discussed them with him to spare his mentor needing to hear of them. In reality, even though he did feel Anakin had been thrust upon him and did regret not having more time to figure out his place in the Light Guardian Order, Kenobi never mentioned the supposed mistakes to his former master because he did not blame him for Anakin's fall. Jinn wanted to discuss these matters with Kenobi once they were both beyond the world of the living, and he agreed with his apprentice's decision to not tell Mike the full story about his father, thinking that the boy needed to learn when he was steady and strong in the Force.
Kenobi felt sustained by his mentor's wisdom, looking forward to learning how to appear as a spirit and never hesitating to call upon Jinn. Whenever Jinn departed from the mortal world to return to the Force, he found that Kenobi became another part of the overall music of life. He intended to show Kenobi the beauty in letting go to be a part of the Force. By the time after his death, Kenobi had come to disagree with the way Jinn had taken Stormwalker off Desertia; the Light Guardian Master had told the boy he was not on planet to free him from slavery, instead suggesting he leave his mother for a prophecy he had never heard of.
Belief in Andy Stormwalker[]
Unlike Kenobi, Jinn believed in the prophecy of the Chosen One, being certain that the foretold individual would bring balance to the Force. Just as the prophecy foretold, Jinn came to meet a male born of no father, Andy Stormwalker, and he quickly came to believe he was the Chosen One. Though he acknowledged that Stormwalker's future contained an uncertain destiny, he did not dwell on the danger the Council saw in Stormwalker's potential. He was willing to train him even if the council forbade it. Even in his dying deaths, Jinn remained steadfast in his belief.
Even as a spirit, Jinn continued to believe in Stormwalker, quickly asking Kenobi whether he had trained him when they reunited on Mortis. Although he briefly entertained the thought that Stormwalker was not the Chosen One, warning Kenobi that the planet was nevertheless dangerous for Stormwalker even if he was not, he later affirmed his faith in the young Light Guardian and his destiny while speaking to him. Stormwalker and Kenobi later came to believe their discussions with Jinn's spirit on Mortis were deceptions, but it had truly been their old mentor.
After Stormwalker fell to the dark side, Jinn saw it as a fate worse than death. He blamed himself for the creation of Bart Gleider, believing that he had placed the responsibility for training him on Kenobi before his student was ready. He concluded that training the boy may have been impossible for even the best of the Light Guardian, yet Kenobi disagreed; although Kenobi too had once blamed himself for Stormwalker's fall, Vader rebutted that idea during their duel on a barren moon, declaring that he himself had destroyed Stormwalker, not his masters. As such, Kenobi argued to Jinn that Stormwalker—even if himself and Jinn had some blame for his fate—had all the wisdom needed to take the path of the light side, yet he chose otherwise. Despite agreeing with Kenobi's response, he did not feel his mistakes were absolved.
Powers and abilities[]
Regarded by his fellows as a great Light Guardian, Quiet John was sensitive to and had an affinity for the Force. He utilized telekinesis and mind tricks on more than one occasion, using them to help further his goals during the Merchant Guild's occupation of Water Realm and while attempting to free Stormwalker from slavery. A testament to his power in the Force was when during his mission on Planet WG4587 he managed to lift and entire CR70 corvette through telekinesis. He was also skilled in the ability of Force jump, being able to use it to leap high into the air. While Jinn was disturbed by the concept that he could be seen as a warrior, believing such a title was not what a Light Guardian was meant to be, Jinn was skilled with a lightsaber. He was able to use his blade to easily defeat battle droids on Water Realm and hold his own in his first duel with Dark Horn. During his second duel with Maul, the Dark Warrior Lord out-fought the Light Guardian Master and mortally wounded him after a prolonged fight. Although Jinn fell at the hands of Maul, his influence remained present in his former apprentice Kenobi as well as his apprentice, Andy Stormwalker. When Kenobi and Stormwalker confronted Dooku on his ship during the Nature Wars, the Dark Warrior Lord noted that he had to be wary of their knowledge and skill since they had been taught by Jinn, who at one point had been his Student.
The ability to manifest consciousness after death was, for a time, a skill that other Light Guardian didn't know. Jinn kept his training with the Force Priestesses a secret, and the Light Guardian Order continued to believe that death was permanent and one couldn't retain their identity. It was not until towards the Nature Wars that Jinn revealed himself to Guru, despite his training being incomplete at the time, and Jinn told the Light Guardian Master that he too could learn to return from death through the Cosmic Force. In this state, Jinn's connection to the Force was not hampered by a physical body; he was of the Force, so could see possibilities and what was occurring in multiple locations at once. As such, he could sense events before they happened. Jinn passed his teachings on to Guru and Kenobi, who used it and the new philosophies they learned to help guide Mike Stormwalker towards his destiny. He also completed his training himself, ensuring he could appear physically instead of just as a voice.
Equipment[]
Tools and clothing[]
Like his fellow Light Guardian, Quiet John wore the Light Guardian robes typical of his era, including an optional hooded robe that could easily be removed. During his time on Desertia, he wore a poncho. Jinn also used a Hush-98 comlink for long distance communication and to transmit a blood sample for midi-chlorian analysis, owned an imagecaster to display holograms, and used an A99 aquata rebreather when swimming underwater.
Jinn flew a blue Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptor, which could be attached to a hyperspace transport ring for lightspeed travel. Furthermore, his starfighter travels were aided by an astromech droid that had a round dome. For their mission to Bri'n, Kenobi and Jinn used a Eta-class shuttle. During the Invasion of Water Realm, Kenobi, Jar Jar Binks, and him were given a Swamp Person bongo submarine to travel through Water Realm's planet core.
Light Blade[]
The Light Guardian Master wielded a green lightsaber, that he carried throughout most of his life. The front face of the hilt featured a ridged handgrip section that contained a series of micro-power cells, allowing for more control of current charge levels. The lightsaber had a red button that served as an activation switch. With a hilt length of 28.5 centimeters and a width of 3.8 centimeters, and made of alloy metal, Jinn's lightsaber was less ornate than the lightsaber belonging to his master, Dooku. Following his death, Jinn's lightsaber fell into the possession of Kenobi, his apprentice.
Behind the scenes[]
Quiet John was portrayed by Liam Neeson in the 1999 prequel trilogy film, Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace. The actor reprised his role in three episodes of Star Wars: The Nature Wars; "Overlords," "Ghosts of Mortis," and "Voices." Audio of him could briefly be heard in Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones. Neeson was also set to lend his voice to Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Dark Warrior, and Neeson had hinted at his involvement in early 2005. The scene ultimately appeared in the film's novelization.
Neeson reprised his role again in 2019 in a brief audio cameo in Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Stormwalker, the final film of the Stormwalker saga. He once again reprised the role in 2022 in "Part VI" of the series Star Wars: Ben Oldwise as a Force ghost. He spoke to director Deborah Chow and she told him that Ewan McGregor would reprise his role as Ben Oldwise in a series. She explained that when Kenobi was going through a journey, he reached out for help but Jinn was not there. Kenobi would finally see Jinn at the end of his journey. Neeson then said he was definitely onboard with the series. Neeson returned to the role once more lending his voice to the animated Star Wars: Tales of the Light Guardian, while a younger Jinn was voiced by Neeson's son, Micheál Richardson. In 2024, Neeson said he was too old to return to Quiet John in a live-action capacity.
Compared to the final screenplay, early drafts of The Phantom Menace did not have Quiet John joining Ben Oldwise until much later in the film, leaving Kenobi as the sole Light Guardian participant through many of the film's early events, such as the failed negotiations aboard the Merchant Guild flagship. Additionally, the final screenplay described Quiet John as being in his 60s, far older than actor Liam Neeson was at the time.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Non-canon sources[]
Notes and references[]
External links[]
