Beep-Boop, pronounced Artoo-Deetoo and often referred to as R2 (Artoo), was an R2-series astromech droid manufactured by Industrial Automaton with masculine programming. A smart, spunky droid who served a multitude of leaders, Beep-Boop was never given a full memory wipe nor did he ever receive new programming, with these factors resulting in an adventurous and independent attitude. Often finding himself in pivotal moments in galactic history, his bravery and ingenuity saved the galaxy on numerous occasions.
Beginning his service in the employ of Planet Ruler Amidala of Water Realm, Beep-Boop wound up serving Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker during the waning years of the Galactic Old Republic, often accompanied by the protocol droid Gold Talker in many adventures throughout the Nature Wars. After Stormwalker turned to the dark side of the Force, the droid served Planet Speaker Bail Organa for a time in the Imperial Senate. Nineteen years following the purge of the Galactic Old Republic, Beep-Boop played a pivotal role in helping the Freedom League destroy the Empire's Doom Sphere superweapon. He carried technical readouts vital to its destruction. Serving Light Guardian Knight Mike Stormwalker, the son of his two former masters throughout the Galactic Civil War, he participated in both the Battles of Ice World and Forest Moon, and witnessed the successful destruction of the Empire's second Doom Sphere four years after the first one was demolished.
In the subsequent thirty years, R2 accompanied Mike Stormwalker until the undoing of his attempted resurrection of the Light Guardian Order in 28 ABY. Following Mike's disappearance, R2 entered a self-imposed low power mode as newer droid models started to out-compute the aging astromech. Despite this, his celebrated role in the Rebellion protected him from the usual recycling procedure of many old droids, allowing him a semi-retirement in the New Rebels as he pored over several decades of uninterrupted data, and "dreamed" of his greatest adventures.
Following his reawakening after the Battle of Star Killer, R2 went on to accompany the Force-sensitive scavenger Ray of Light on her journey to train under Mike Stormwalker on Ahch-To, the planet of the First Light Guardian Temple, where the droid was reunited with his old master. Beep-Boop continued to aid the New Rebels alongside his longtime counterpart Gold Talker throughout the New Empire-New Rebels War, culminating in a decisive victory at the Battle of Exegol, in which he was an active participant in the role of copilot for Army Leader Paul Falcon.
Contents
Biography[]
Serving Pamela Planet Ruler[]
Beep-Boop was built around prior or during 32 BBY. He was one of several astromech droids on Planet Ruler Pamela Planet Ruler's Water Realm Royal Starship during the invasion of Water Realm by the Merchant Guild that year. The ship was used by Planet Ruler Amidala and her entourage in an attempt to pass the blockade and escape the planet. Unluckily for the passengers, the vessel took a hit to the shield generator from a Merchant Guild battleship. The four astromechs were sent out to repair the ship, but only Beep-Boop survived — the rest were pulverized by stray blaster fire. Beep-Boop was able to bring the shields online by bypassing the main power drive, allowing the ship to narrowly escape into hyperspace.
As the ship traveled to Desertia, Beep-Boop was taken before Sabé, the Planet Ruler's decoy in the guise of Amidala, where he was commended for his actions. The ship landed on Desertia without any further incidents, although the voyage fried the hyperdrive. Beep-Boop accompanied Light Guardian Master Quiet John, Swamp Person exile Jar Jar Binks, and Royal Lady, the queen in disguise, to the city of Mos Espa to find a replacement. In the junk shop of the Toydarian merchant Watto they found they could not afford a replacement hyperdrive and later took shelter from a sandstorm in the home of Watto's slaves, a boy named Andy Stormwalker, and his mother, Shmi.
At the Stormwalker home, Beep-Boop met Gold Talker, a protocol droid that Anakin had built. The two bonded as they worked on Anakin's personal podracer. Beep-Boop and Gold Talker cheered for Anakin during the Boonta Eve Classic, where the boy would win his freedom, along with enough money to buy a new hyperdrive. Beep-Boop accompanied the group to City Planet, and from there back to Water Realm. As Planet Ruler Amidala led an attempt to liberate the planet, Beep-Boop nestled into an N-1 starfighter. Young Anakin, being ordered to hide in the cockpit by Quiet John, accidentally launched the fighter and the two flew into battle, destroyed the Metal Helper Control Ship and shut down the droid armies, winning the battle and liberating Water Realm. Beep-Boop and his allies later attended a victory parade in Theed, though they were unable to be joined by Jinn, as he had been killed by the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Horn during the battle. Because of this, Stormwalker became the Student learner to Ben Oldwise, who had been Jinn's apprentice before the Light Guardian Master's death.
Four years later, as Amidala's term ended, and she accepted a position in the Space Congress, Beep-Boop accompanied her retinue to City Planet on the orders of the Water Realm's new queen, Réillata. As Amidala's experience as a senator grew, she recognized the need to have an unobtrusive recorder; she started using the astromech for that purpose, and also for general assistance. During the Senate's break, Amidala returned to Water Realm with her retinue and Beep-Boop, who accompanied her to her family home. There, Beep-Boop was called over by Amidala to help her father Ruwee Naberrie build a greenhouse, only for the astromech droid to instead become enamored by Amidala's newborn niece, Ryoo Naberrie. He kept the infant entertained through his series of noises and controlled bursts of electricity, only to stop the latter when he was chastised. As he played with Ryoo in a safer way, Amidala told her sister and Ryoo's mother Sola about why Beep-Boop had joined her retinue, after which Sola told the small droid that, while he needed given further direction on the matter, he worked well as a babysitter. Beep-Boop responded with a chirping noise before moving his attention back to Ryoo.
In 26 BBY, Light Guardian Three Eyesd Master Guru, Light Guardian Master Mace Purple, and Light Guardian Master Bant Eerin launched a test for Kenobi and Stormwalker by staging a fake kidnapping of Guru. After traveling to the Wheel space station, the two Light Guardian took a comlink from Windu, who was disguised as the mobster Grynask Sanberge, back to their shuttle. When Stormwalker was decrypting the comlink, he wished Beep-Boop was with him, as he felt the droid friend he had met during the Water Realm Crisis would have quickly finished the work.
The Nature Wars[]
Genesis of the Nature Wars[]
Beep-Boop accompanied Amidala to City Planet prior to the senate's vote on the Military Creation Act. After an assassination attempt on Amidala took the life of her handmaiden and decoy, Cordé, Ben Oldwise and Andy Stormwalker were assigned to be her Light Guardian protectors. That night, another assassination attempt was carried out. A pair of kouhuns narrowly missed killing Amidala and although one assassin, Zam Wesell, was neutralized, another escaped.
For her own protection, Royal Lady was sent home to Water Realm, with Beep-Boop and Stormwalker accompanying her. The three later traveled to Desertia, where they were reunited with Gold Talker, and then to Bug Planet to rescue Kenobi. As they explored a massive droid factory, Beep-Boop had to save Amidala from being killed by molten metal while Gold Talker had his head switched with a battle droid's. R2 was later able to restore his companion during the Battle of Bug Planet. After the battle, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker were the sole witnesses to the marriage of Andy Stormwalker and Pamela Planet Ruler in Lake Noble Titlery. After this Royal Lady gave ownership of R2 to Anakin while she kept 3PO.
The Defense of Crystal City[]
Following the outbreak of the Nature Wars, Beep-Boop accompanied Stormwalker and Master Kenobi — who had both been promoted to the position of Light Guardian Army Leader — during the defense of the planet Crystal City against a besieging Separatist army led by Sea Leader Trench. When Clone Unit Leader Cody and Clone Ship Leader Rex discovered a spy among their number, Beep-Boop helped to ferret out the traitor by monitoring his transmissions. The droid's work led to the arrest of Clone Sergeant Slick, who was identified as the traitor. During the subsequent battle, the Light Guardian and Clones managed to defeat the Separatist army by sabotaging their shield generator, which exposed them to Old Republic artillery. The Old Republic forces were also aided by the arrival of Ashoka Friend, Stormwalker's newly designated Head-Tail Student.
Rescuing Rotta[]
Following the defense of Crystal City, Beep-Boop, along with Army Leader Stormwalker and Student Tano, took part in a mission to rescue Rotta, the son of the Giant Slug crime lord Jabba. While Stormwalker and Tano laid siege to the Separatist-held B'omarr Order Monastery on Teth where Rotta was being held, Beep-Boop sat in Stormwalker's starfighter and maintained contact with Army Leader Kenobi. Stormwalker's starfighter was hit when Separatist reinforcements arrived, but the droid managed to eject from the vehicle moments before it exploded. Later, he met up with Stormwalker and Tano as they escaped from the building.
On the way, they encountered Assassin Night, a dark-side agent of the Separatist leader Noble Title Noble, and several B2-series super battle droids. Before a skirmish could occur, Beep-Boop activated a trapdoor which sent everyone plunging down a chute into an arena. During the skirmish, Beep-Boop assailed a second group of B2 battle droids, causing them to fall into the arena. After arriving in the backdoor landing platform, Stormwalker and Tano, along with Rotta, managed to escape Ventress on a large, winged insect called a Can-cell. Artoo followed behind with his booster rockets. The group then left Teth on Stormwalker's ship, the Twilight.
Unable to rendezvous with the Space Dominator, Beep-Boop and his companions were forced to travel to Desertia and deliver the Giant Sluglet directly to his father, who had a desert palace there. Beep-Boop programmed the coordinates into the ship's navicomputer, and it jumped to hyperspace. Arriving above Desertia, the Twilight was attacked by Separatist vulture droids and crash-landed on the Dune Sea. Beep-Boop and his companions were forced to continue the journey to Jabba's palace on foot. While Stormwalker confronted Noble Title Noble, Artoo and Tano continued the journey to Jabba's palace. After fighting off three IG-100 MagnaGuards, the two then entered the palace and returned the Giant Sluglet to Jabba. At that moment, a holo-transmission from Planet Speaker Amidala on City Planet identified Jabba's uncle Ziro as the instigator behind the kidnapping, which placated an angry Jabba. As a result, the Old Republic was able to conclude a treaty with Jabba.
Hunting the Malevolence[]
Beep-Boop, along with Andy Stormwalker and Ben Oldwise, later took part in the hunt for Army Leader Steel' flagship — the Subjugator-class heavy cruiser Malevolence — which had destroyed several Old Republic warships. After a prolonged hunt, Stormwalker's Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominator Resolute prepared to destroy the Malevolence near the Kaliida Nebula. However, their mission was complicated by the arrival of Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler's yacht, which had been lured there by disinformation. Unwilling to endanger his wife, Stormwalker, accompanied by Beep-Boop and Kenobi, boarded the Malevolence to rescue her.
During their mission aboard the Malevolence, Beep-Boop remained at the airlock entrance where he shut down the rail jet hovertrain under orders from Stormwalker. He then helped locate his old friend Gold Talker, who had arrived with Amidala and gotten lost aboard the massive warship. After reuniting, the two droids rendezvoused with Amidala and Stormwalker before meeting Kenobi at the Twilight. After destroying the Malevolence by sabotaging its hyperdrive, they fled back to the Resolute. Despite their victory, Army Leader Steel escaped the destruction of the Malevolence.
Captive of Army Leader Steel[]
During the Separatist assault on Bothawui, Beep-Boop flew in the droid socket of Army Leader Stormwalker's starfighter. While pursuing Army Leader Steel' starfighter, Stormwalker and Beep-Boop's starfighter was hit by a piece of shrapnel. Stormwalker was rescued by Old Republic forces but Artoo was recovered by the Lizard Man scavenger Gha Nachkt, who sold him to Army Leader Steel. Nachkt traveled to Grievous' secret listening post Skytop Station, which lay in the Ruusan system. Knowing Artoo's relationship with Stormwalker, the Separatist military leader ordered Nachkt to disassemble the astromech droid and extract all information on the Old Republic's military strategies from him.
During his captivity, Beep-Boop had managed to broadcast an emergency transmission to Stormwalker, who traveled to Skytop Station and rescued him. Artoo also encountered Stormwalker's new replacement astromech R3-S6, who was a secret Confederate spy. While traveling to the hangar bay where Stormwalker's ship Twilight was docking, R3-S6 showed his true colors by shutting the hangar doors and activating several Vulture droids and B2 battle droids which attacked Stormwalker, Artoo, and the present clone troopers. Under Stormwalker's orders, R2 raced to the outer platform to see if there was a way to open the hangar door. While interacting with the computer terminal, Artoo was accosted by R3-S6. Following a scuffle, Beep-Boop defeated and neutralized the Separatist spy droid. Together with Stormwalker, Artoo escaped Skytop Station before it exploded.
Mission to Orto Plutonia[]
Later, Beep-Boop accompanied Gold Talker, Army Leader Stormwalker, Master Kenobi and a unit of clone troopers on a mission to investigate the disappearance of a local clone trooper garrison on the icy world of Orto Plutonia. Their mission was also complicated by the presence of Pantoran delegation led by Chairman Chi Cho and Planet Speaker Riyo Chuchi, which maintained a territorial claim over Orto Plutonia. After discovering the dead Clone troopers and a wrecked Separatist base nearby, the Light Guardian and Old Republic mission deduced that a third party had been responsible for the attack. Kenobi and Stormwalker later discovered that Orto Plutonia was home to a species of sentient furry biped called the Talz, who wanted to be left alone in peace.
After an ensuing conflict between the Pantorans and the Talz, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker accompanied Planet Speaker Chuchi, the Light Guardian, and some clone troopers to the scene of the battle, where Chuchi and Gold Talker made peace with the Talz Chieftain Thi-Sen and renounced Pantora's claim to Orto Plutonia.
Blue Shadow Virus[]
Following the discovery of a secret Separatist bioweapons research facility in Water Realm's eastern swamps, Beep-Boop accompanied Army Leader Stormwalker, Student Tano, and Master Kenobi when they traveled to Water Realm to apprehend the Separatist scientist Doctor Nuvo Vindi. With the aid of Planet Speaker Amidala, Representative Binks, Gold Talker, and several Clone troopers, Artoo and the Light Guardian managed to capture Dr Vindi and to secure his facility, which was producing a deadly virus called the Blue Shadow Virus. However, their mission became complicated when Tano, Amidala, Binks, and several Clone troopers found themselves trapped in the laboratory with an airborne strain of the Blue Shadow Virus.
Learning that the root of the Reeksa plant contained the antidote to the Blue Shadow Virus, Beep-Boop along with Stormwalker and Kenobi traveled to the planet Iego on the Twilight to obtain the plant. However, they were unable to leave Iego due to the presence of Drol, a LaserWeb Defense Station that the Breakaway League had installed in orbit. Beep-Boop helped the two Light Guardian to break through Drol by slave-rigging several Vulture droids and sending them on kamikaze runs against the space station. Artoo's role in destroying Drol enabled Stormwalker and Kenobi to travel back to Water Realm with the Reeksa plant antidote — allowing them to save the lives of Planet Speaker Amidala, Ashoka Friend, and the clone troopers.
Liberation of Twilight Planet[]
At a later point in the Nature Wars, the Separatist leader Emir Wat Tambor invaded the Twin-Tail homeworld of Twilight Planet and enslaved its inhabitants. Beep-Boop was part of the Old Republic force led by Army Leader Andy Stormwalker and Unit Leader Ashoka Friend that was sent to relieve Twilight Planet. During the Battle of Twilight Planet, the Old Republic reinforcements sustained significant casualties — including the loss of the Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominator Redeemer. While Old Republic forces regrouped, Artoo helped Stormwalker to repair Tano's starfighter.
Beep-Boop later took part in the Old Republic counterattack against the Separatist blockade when he and Stormwalker piloted the damaged Space Dominator Defender into the Separatist flagship. Prior to the crash, Artoo and his master escaped in a pod, and were picked up by another Old Republic ship. The destruction of the Separatist flagship enabled Old Republic bombers to destroy the remaining Separatist warships, clearing the way for more reinforcements led by Light Guardian Army Leaders Kenobi and Windu to liberate Twilight Planet.
Hunting Cad Hunter[]
Beep-Boop later participated in a joint Old Republic and Light Guardian operation to hunt down the Separatist-employed bounty hunter Cad Hunter, who had stolen a holocron from the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet. In addition, Bane kidnapped the Light Guardian Master Bolla Ropal, who had a kyber memory crystal containing Light Guardian secrets. Since a Separatist fleet was poised to rendezvous with Bane at the Devaron system to collect the holocron, Army Leader Stormwalker led a Old Republic fleet to intercept Bane. Beep-Boop along Stormwalker, Tano, and Ship Leader Rex succeeded in boarding the bounty hunter's Munificent-class star frigate.
In response, Bane killed Master Ropal and set his ship to self-destruct. During the fighting aboard the Separatist cruiser, Beep-Boop aided his companions by locating Ropal's cell and later reactivating the artificial gravity during a skirmish with battle droids. Ahsoka was taken hostage by Bane during the fighting. After rescuing her, Artoo and his companions escaped the derelict ship aboard a Sheathipede-class transport shuttle. However, the Light Guardian failed to recover the stolen holocron and Bane managed to escape the battlefield by impersonating a clone trooper. Using the holocron and the stolen kyber crystal, Bane disguised himself as a Light Guardian and began kidnapping Force-sensitive children under orders from Dark Space King.
After recapturing Cad Hunter on Water Realm, Beep-Boop, along with Stormwalker and Tano, examined Bane's starfighter Xanadu Blood and discovered that he had recently traveled to the volcanic planet of Lava World. Artoo later accompanied his master and Tano to Lava World where they managed to rescue the children, following a skirmish with Separatist droids. However, they were unable to locate the mastermind who hired Bane, Dark Space King.
The Senate Hostage Crisis[]
Following Beep-Boop and Stormwalker's adventures with Cad Hunter, the two visited Planet Speaker Amidala on City Planet. The Planet Speaker and Gold Talker were organizing a party for Planet Speaker Aang, a friend of Amidala. After Beep-Boop forgot to buy some jogan fruit for garnishing the jogan fruitcake, Stormwalker sent Artoo and Threepio to the lower market districts. The two droids quarreled on the way, with Gold Talker blaming him for his incompetence.
However, Gold Talker was swindled by the fruit vendor, who overcharged for the jogan fruit. Right after the purchase, a droid called Todo 360 came up to them and suggested that the two droids relax at a nearby droid spa. Artoo enthusiastically agreed. On the way to the spa, the two droids were separated and Gold Talker was kidnapped by Todo 360 and a fellow sentinel droid called HELIOS-3E. These sentinel droids were working for Cad Hunter, who was planning a raid on the Space Congress and wanted to find out about the layout of the Senate Building.
When Gold Talker refused to provide the information, Bane ordered his droid henchmen to kidnap Beep-Boop. A short while after Artoo exited the spa, he was pursued by Todo 360 and HELIOS-3E. Artoo managed to hide in a dark alley but surrendered himself after learning that Bane planned to dismantle Threepio. Accessing Beep-Boop's memory banks, Bane was able to obtain a technical layout of the Senate Building. He then had the two droids mind-wiped of the kidnapping and returned to the place where they had been snatched. Completely unaware of what had transpired previously, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker returned to Amidala's apartment with the jogan fruit. Following their kidnapping and release, Bane and several associates invaded the Senate and kidnapped several Planet Speakers in a successful attempt to force the Old Republic to release Jabba's uncle Ziro.
Exposing the Senate Spy[]
Beep-Boop and Gold Talker were briefly reunited when the two droids accompanied their masters Planet Speaker Amidala and Army Leader Stormwalker on a sensitive mission to Bridge World. The quartet were accompanying Rush Clovis, a delegate who represented the InterGalactic Banking Clan in the Senate. The Light Guardian Council suspected that Clovis was secretly reporting to the Breakaway League, and sent Stormwalker and Amidala to spy on him. During the journey, Stormwalker posed as Amidala's pilot while Beep-Boop posed as one of Amidala's astromech droids. Upon arriving on Bridge World, Artoo and Stormwalker stayed aboard Amidala's ship while Amidala, Clovis, and Gold Talker met the Merchant Guild's Planet Speaker Lott Dod.
While conversing with Clovis and Dod, Amidala managed to steal a hologram disc which confirmed that Clovis was indeed associated with the Breakaway League. Amidala managed to pass the datacard to Stormwalker and Beep-Boop before she succumbed to the effects of a poison drink spiked by Planet Speaker Dod. After securing the datacard and an antidote for Amidala, Beep-Boop and his companions left Bridge World. Clovis was left behind to face a displeased Planet Speaker Dod. Using the intelligence obtained from the stolen datacard, Old Republic and Light Guardian forces were able to destroy a Separatist droid factory on Bug Planet.
Mission to Warrior Home[]
Later, Beep-Boop accompanied Army Leaders Stormwalker and Kenobi on a sensitive mission to escort the Armored One Duchess Satine Kryze, who was traveling to the Space Congress on City Planet to plead the case for her homeworld's neutrality. While the Armored Ones were officially neutral in the Nature Wars, there had been rumors that the planet planned to join the Breakaway League. There was also a pro-Separatist militant faction on Warrior Home known as the Death Watch. Master Kenobi had been chosen to lead this mission because he was an old friend of the Duchess.
Duchess Satine was traveling to City Planet on the Armored One luxury spaceliner Coronet. Under orders from Stormwalker and Kenobi, Beep-Boop and several Clone troopers probed the ship for any signs of Death Watch or Separatist activity. After entering hyperspace, the Light Guardian and clones were attacked by several assassin probes. One of the passengers, the Kalevalan Planet Speaker Tal Merrik, was exposed as a Separatist supporter. Merrik took Satine hostage and seized control of the cockpit. Merrik pulled the Coronet out of hyperspace and contacted the Death Watch's leader Pre Warrior, who sent B2 super battle droids to board the liner.
Beep-Boop along with the clones and Light Guardian fought off the Separatist boarders. During the fighting, Merrik was killed by Stormwalker and Duchess Satine was freed by the Light Guardian. Following the defeat of the Death Watch and Breakaway League, the Coronet arrived in City Planet safely with Duchess Satine. After some further Separatist attempts to sabotage her peace mission, Duchess Satine was able to convince the Space Congress, with the help of Planet Speaker Amidala and Master Kenobi, that Warrior Home should remain neutral during the Nature Wars. As a result, the Senate rescinded an earlier order to occupy Warrior Home.
The Zillo Beast affair[]
Later, Beep-Boop accompanied Army Leader Stormwalker during the Battle of Malastare. The Old Republic was fighting against the Breakaway League for access to Malastare's vast fuel reserves. The Old Republic's Three Eyesd Army fought alongside the Long Arms against the Separatist droid army. During the fighting, a Old Republic electro-proton bomb awakened an ancient reptilian monster known as the Zillo Beast, which proceeded to devastate the clone and droid armies.
During the fighting, Beep-Boop and Stormwalker barely escaped their starfighter before it was devoured by the Zillo Beast. Stormwalker held on to Beep-Boop as they rocketed away from the monster. Later, the Old Republic forces managed to incapacitate the Zillo Beast by stunning it with RX-200 Falchion-class assault tanks. Following the battle, Supreme High Leader Palpatine ordered that the Zillo Beast be brought to City Planet for further study — despite the misgivings of Army Leader Windu and Army Leader Stormwalker. Palpatine hoped to use its scales to develop a new armor for the Three Eyesd Army.
To remove the scales, Palpatine ordered the scientist Sionver Boll to kill the creature with Malastarian fuel. However, Planet Speaker Amidala learned of Palpatine's plan and arranged a meeting with Stormwalker and Kenobi. Stormwalker managed to arrange a meeting between Amidala, Palpatine, and Vice Chair Mas Amedda. However, the Zillo Beast escaped Boll's laboratory at the same time and proceeded to wreck havoc on the streets of City Planet. Sensing that Palpatine was a Dark Warrior, the Zillo Beast made its way to the Space Congress building. Beep-Boop and Gold Talker escaped in an executive ship along with Stormwalker, Palpatine, and some others, but the ship was captured by the Zillo Beast.
Before the monster could devour the ship, Stormwalker managed to use his lightsaber to cleave the vessel in half; sending the bow along with Beep-Boop and the other passengers plummeting into the Senate Building. Beep-Boop managed to activated his booster rockets and rescue Gold Talker. The astromech droid also used a tow cable to attach himself to the other side of the building. Beep-Boop was forced to drop Gold Talker to rescue Palpatine. Shortly later, the Zillo Beast was killed by gas bombs fired from Old Republic Dropship gunships. Due to this quick intervention, Beep-Boop survived the Zillo Beast incident and continued serving Stormwalker.
The Vanqor Trap[]
After the Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominator Endurance crash-landed on the planet Vanqor, Beep-Boop along with Army Leader Stormwalker, Master Mace Purple, and the astromech droid R8-B7 participated in a mission to rescue the crew and passengers of the stricken vessel. Unbeknownst to them, the former bounty hunter and clone template Jango Clone's son Bobby Hunter had sabotaged the vessel and set a trap for the Light Guardian. He intended to avenge the death of his father by murdering Master Windu, who had killed Jango Clone during the Battle of Bug Planet.
While approaching the vessel, Beep-Boop beeped that "he had a bad feeling about this." In response, Windu chastised Stormwalker for encouraging individuality in his droid. While exploring the bridge of the stricken Space Dominator, the Light Guardian and droids came across the bodies of dead clone troopers who had been executed, rather than killed by the impact of the crash. While searching for survivors, Beep-Boop and R8-B7 were pursued and set upon by a pack of gundarks. R8-B7 was ripped apart while Beep-Boop was knocked to the ground. Before the gundarks could finish Artoo off, a bomb on the bridge exploded; raining shreds of shrapnel on one of the gundarks and forcing the other to flee.
Beep-Boop came up to the bridge and found Stormwalker and Windu had survived the blast, but were trapped under the rubble. When Beep-Boop attempted to move the debris, he caused the bridge to shudder. Stormwalker warned Beep-Boop to stop trying to free them. Instead, he instructed the astromech to return to their Light Guardian starfighter and contact the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet for help. While leaving the bridge, Beep-Boop was pursued by Bobby Hunter's bounty hunter associates including Aurra Sing. He managed to escape, and delayed them by using debris to block them.
R2 managed to reach the Light Guardian starfighters, but he was then accosted by the remaining gundark. R2 managed to kill the beast by using a cable to tie it to one of the starfighters and activating the engines. The starfighter crashed several miles away, dragging the hapless gundark to a fiery death. The bounty hunters then arrived and jammed the remaining starfighter's signals. They attempted to capture Beep-Boop; however, before they could, the astromech droid blasted the ship into hyperspace and traveled to City Planet. On his way to the briefing room, he bumped into R4-M1 and R5-S9. Once at the briefing room, he got into a small fight with Plo Mask's astromech, R7-D4, before being broken up by Tano. Koon then allowed the R2 unit to relay Stormwalker's message to the other Light Guardian in person. In response, Plo Mask and Ashoka Friend were sent to Vanqor with clone reinforcements and they rescued Stormwalker and Windu. Beep-Boop was commended for his bravery. However, Bobby Hunter and his associates continued to trouble the Light Guardian.
Infiltrating the Citadel[]
After taking part in the Battle of Volcanic World, Beep-Boop and his Light Guardian masters, along with several clone troopers, later took part in a mission to infiltrate the Separatist stronghold Citadel on the planet Lola Sayu and free the Light Guardian Master Even Scar. Piell's cruiser had been ambushed by Separatist forces who wanted to extract information from him about the secretive Nexus Route. As part of the plan, Beep-Boop and a group of reprogrammed battle droids piloted a Sheathipede-class Type B shuttle through enemy lines. To fool the Separatist life form detectors, the entire Light Guardian and Clone trooper strike team were frozen in carbonite. This plot worked and the Light Guardian-Old Republic strike team succeeded in landing at a cavern near the Citadel.
After unfreezing the Light Guardian and clone troopers, Beep-Boop waited aboard the shuttle while the strike team freed Master Piell and several Old Republic officers including Ship Leader Darrel Wolf. After achieving their objectives, Army Leader Stormwalker contacted Artoo to prepare their ship for departure and to meet them at the landing platform. However, the platform was occupied by several Separatist droids. Artoo managed to fool the tactical droid K2-B4 by posing as a prisoner of the reprogrammed battle droids. This enabled R2 to infiltrate the prison complex and flee Army Leader Kenobi and his team who had been captured.
Following the destruction of their escape transport, Master Piell and Beep-Boop contacted the Light Guardian Council for help. The Light Guardian Council dispatched a task force of four warships led by Master Plo Mask to rescue Stormwalker and Kenobi's rescue team. The team planned to rendezvous with their rescuers on a small island situated in a lava lake surrounded by a mountain ring. They were pursued by droid forces led by the Separatist warden Osi Sobeck who was intent on recovering his prisoners. During the fighting, Beep-Boop's battle droid squadron sacrificed themselves to hold back the battle droids while Master Piell was murdered by an Anooba, but not before disclosing his secret information to Ashoka Friend. Later, the Light Guardian and Old Republic strike team were rescued by Plo Mask's forces.
Mission to Aleen[]
Beep-Boop was again reunited with his protocol droid counterpart when the two droids took part in a Old Republic mercy mission to the Mid Rim planet of Aleen, which was experiencing a series of catastrophic global earthquakes. While Beep-Boop was tasked with interfacing with the equipment, Gold Talker served as a translator between the locals and the Clone Unit Leader Wolffe. During their mission, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker visited a local Old Republic communications mission to survey and repair the damage caused by the recent earthquake. Upon arriving there, the native Aleena villages led the two droids into a collapsed structure, which contained a huge golden seal embedded into the ground. The seal turned out to be the entrance to a tunnel that led to the subterranean regions of Aleen. Their arrival coincided with an earthquake and the two droids fell into the tunnel and were separated from the clone troopers and villagers.
While exploring the underground tunnels, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker encountered a species of sentient, tree-like beings called the Kindalo, who demanded that they leave since the surface dwellers "destroyed the peace." After Gold Talker managed to convince the Kindalo that they bore no ill will and had come to help with the earthquakes, the Kindalo sent the two droids to meet Orphne, a reptilian humanoid with mystical powers. Orphne told the two droids that a mutual balance had previously existed between the Aleena and the subterranean world. Since Aleena's atmosphere was toxic to them, the underground dwellers depended on a filtering process of the planet's soil that made the air breathable for them. The underground dwellers had set off this earthquake as a means of sealing the breach.
When Gold Talker agreed to help fix the damage, Orphne gave the droids a parting riddle. Beep-Boop quickly deduced that Orphne was referring to a river and used the water seal to activate a water spout that sent the two droids and the chamber's central floor plate back to the surface. The two droids landed at the opening where they were greeted by a chanting crowd of Aleena. Recalling the riddle, two droids quickly realized that they had to fix the breach, which was in fact the unsettled seal. Together, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker closed the seal which brought an end to Aleen's earthquakes. While Wolffe and his clone troopers were skeptical of their story, the two droids' efforts were greatly appreciated by the Aleena.
Further adventures[]
Following the events on Allena, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker were caught up in a second adventure. While traveling aboard the Light Guardian Master Adi Gallia's cruiser, their starship was attacked by three Separatist cruisers led by Army Leader Steel. The two droids escaped the stricken vessel aboard a BTL-B Fork Fighter starfighter/bomber and crash-landed on the nearby planet of Patitite Pattuna.
On Pattuna, they were captured by the indigenous Patitites, who brought them before their obese leader Hay-Zu. During their meeting, Beep-Boop accidentally murdered the tyrannical overlord — much to the joy of the Patitites, who released the two droids and allowed them to leave on their Fork Fighter. With their starfighter's power systems damaged, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker were forced to land on another planet called Balnab. The indigenous Balnabs captured the two droids and brought them before their leader, who turned out to be a holo-projection created by a group of rogue pit droids. These pit droids had enslaved the Balnabs. After Beep-Boop exposed the scam, the Balnabs rebelled against their droid overlords.
Beep-Boop and Gold Talker took the opportunity to escape and resume their search for a replacement power unit for their Fork Fighter starfighter. Low on battery power themselves, the two droids were captured by a band of Leather Face pirates, who wanted to use them as gladiators. However, the Leather Face's pirate ship Marauder was attacked by Army Leader Steel' cruiser. During the bombardment, Gold Talker and Beep-Boop were sucked out of the Marauder by a hull-breach. Beep-Boop used his rocket boosters to bring him and Gold Talker aboard Grievous' ship. Grievous ordered the two droids to be melted down in his incinerator but they were rescued by a Old Republic fleet led by Master Plo Mask, who had come to rescue Master Gallia. Beep-Boop and Gold Talker were subsequently rescued by Plo Mask's forces and resumed their services to Planet Speaker Amidala and Army Leader Stormwalker respectively.
Fighting the Zygerrians[]
Later, Beep-Boop accompanied his masters Andy Stormwalker, Ashoka Friend, and Ben Oldwise on a mission to the planet Kiros, which was home to a Head-Tailn colony. The Breakaway League and their Zygerrian allies had invaded Kiros and enslaved the native Head-Tailns. During the battle on Kiros, Beep-Boop accompanied the Old Republic assault on the Separatist forces there. The astromech droid played his part by helping the Old Republic forces to locate Separatist bombs planted in Kiros' capital city with his scanners. Later, Beep-Boop accompanied Stormwalker and Tano on a mission to infiltrate the Zygerrian planet Kadavo in order to free Kenobi, the Clone trooper captives, and the enslaved Head-Tailns. Following a battle, the Old Republic succeeded in achieving these objectives and dealing a heavy blow against the Zygerrian Slave Empire.
Escaping Death Watch[]
Beep-Boop later accompanied Ahsoka, Planet Speakers Amidala, Bail Organa, and Mon Mothma on a peace mission to the neutral world of Warrior Home. Under the auspices of the Armored One Duchess Satine Kryze, Old Republic and Separatist delegates were meeting there to discuss a peaceful solution to the Nature Wars. The proceedings were interrupted by the Onderonian junior senator Lux Bonteri, who accused Noble Title Noble of conspiring to murder his mother, Planet Speaker Mina Bonteri. Beep-Boop and Ahsoka barely managed to rescue Lux from murder by the Breakaway League and fled from Warrior Home.
However, Lux was unwilling to join the Old Republic and hijacked the ship in order to take it to the icy planet of Carlac, where he had planned to join the Death Watch, an exiled Armored One faction who were then conspiring to kill Noble Title Noble. On Carlac, Beep-Boop was put to work repairing their batch of battle droids, which were used for target practice, and quickly befriended them. Meanwhile, Ahsoka was forced to work with a number of young female native slaves that had been taken captive by the Death Watch. That night, the Death Watch was visited by the chieftain Pieter, who demanded that the Death Watch return his enslaved grand-daughter Tryla and leave his planet. Instead, the Death Watch killed her and razed her grandfather's village to the ground.
Ahsoka and Lux fought against the Death Watch and managed to help Pieter and several of the villagers to escape. Ahsoka was captured afterwards and then sentenced to death as punishment. After seeing Ahsoka in bonds, Beep-Boop convinced the newly-repaired Death Watch droids to help him rescue her. Before the Death Watch leader Pre Warrior could execute her, Beep-Boop managed to blind Vizsla and return her lightsabers. While Tano parried with Vizsla, Beep-Boop's droid companions kept the remaining Death Watch members busy. This diversion enabled Beep-Boop to escape with Ahsoka and Lux on a speeder. After fighting off their pursuers, they managed to escape aboard their ship and head offworld. Lux decided to depart the ship in an escape pod but vowed to meet Ahsoka again.
Younglings and pirates[]
Beep-Boop later accompanied Ashoka Friend who was escorting six Light Guardian younglings to the planet Ilum to complete The Gathering, an initiation rite prior to Light Guardian commencing their training as Students. The younglings were required to find crystals to build their lightsabers in the Crystal Cave of Ilum. On the way back to City Planet, their Light Guardian training cruiser, the Crucible, was intercepted by the pirate Hondo Pirate and his gang. Before Beep-Boop could effect an escape, the pirates boarded the ship. They intended to steal the youngling's lightsaber crystals and sell them on the black market. During the skirmish, Tano ordered Artoo and the younglings Zatt and Ganodi to secure the deck while the droid Huyang and the other younglings hid in the deck. Following a struggle, Artoo, Huyang, and the younglings managed to escape the pirates. However, Hondo kidnapped Ahsoka and left Artoo and the others to deliver the bad news to the Light Guardian Council.
Left adrift in space, the younglings managed to contact Army Leader Kenobi, who promised to send a rescue mission to relieve them and to rescue Ahsoka from the pirate Hondo. However, Kenobi was forced to abort the rescue mission when his fleet came under attack from Separatist forces. Alone, the six younglings hatched a mission to rescue Ahsoka. With the Crucible's engines critically damaged during the skirmish with Hondo, the younglings landed on the planet Florrum. While Artoo and Ganodi stayed behind to rescue the damaged Huyang and the ship, the other five younglings traveled to the pirate's base disguised as junior acrobats working for the Long Arm circus manager Preigo. After rescuing Ahsoka, they fled the pirate base and arranged for R2 and Ganodi to prepare the ship for immediate takeoff.
While flying to pick up the younglings and Ahsoka, the Crucible was shot down by the pirates; forcing Artoo, Ganodi, and Huyang to evacuate the vessel. Hondo's pirates quickly recaptured Ahsoka and her youngling rescuers. However, the arrival of a Separatist droid army under Army Leader Steel forced the Light Guardian prisoners to work together with their former pirate captors. Ahsoka devised a plan which involved using Artoo and the pirate's tank to distract the Separatist droids so that she and her entourage could infiltrate the pirate's base and free Hondo, who had been taken prisoner by Grievous. After freeing Hondo, the united Light Guardian and pirates proceeded to liberate the rest of Hondo's men. During the skirmish, Beep-Boop's tank was boarded by Grievous. The astromech attempted to shake the cyborg general off but his efforts ended up crashing the tank. In the end, Beep-Boop along with Ahsoka, the younglings, and the pirates managed to escape aboard Hondo's escape ship, the rebuilt Hunter One.
Serving in D-Squad[]
Beep-Boop later participated in a mission devised by the Light Guardian Council to capture a Separatist decoding module from the vault of a Separatist warship. Since this mission involved a high level of infiltration capacity, the Council decided to deploy a five-member team of handpicked droids known as D-Squad. Beep-Boop was part of the squad along with the astromech droids QT-KT, M5-BZ, and U9-C4, and the pit droid WAC-47. Their mission was led by Meebur Gascon, a diminutive male Zilkin who served as a Colonel in the Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic.
After a brief skirmish, the droids managed to infiltrate the Separatist warship and steal the decoding module. They then escaped the warship. While traveling back to City Planet, their transport shuttle was damaged by ice comets and crash-landed on the nearby waste planet of Abafar. As D-Squad continued their journey across the wasteland, Gascon assigned Beep-Boop with the task of carrying the module. The stress of the mission created strains between Gascon and the astromech droids, who separated. After WAC appointed himself the leader of the squad, the astromech droids abandoned him and continued their journey to a sunken city. Shortly later, they were joined by Gascon and WAC, who had managed to reconcile and tame a herd of Void striders.
Reunited, the droids and Colonel Gascon traveled to the seedy town of Pons Ora. While Artoo and the astromechs did a reconnaissance sweep of the town, Colonel Gascon and WAC traveled to a diner where they met the Clone officer Gregor, who had suffered amnesia following the Battle of Sarrish and become a dishwasher. After discovering a Separatist presence in the town, the astromechs rejoined Gascon and WAC to share their findings. With Beep-Boop's help, Gascon and D-Squad managed to convince Gregor that he was a Clone trooper and to get him to help them. Gregor also questioned his former employer, the Big Ear cook Borkus, who revealed that the Breakaway League were planning to blow up a Old Republic cruiser in orbit with the rhydonium fuel they had mined.
Using Borkus' information, D-Squad returned to the landing zone and confirmed that Borkus was telling the truth. D-Squad unanimously agreed to save the cruiser. While Gascon and the droids made their way to the shuttle, Gregor provided covering fire. However, the Separatist battle droids spotted D-Squad and opened fired on them, knocking down BZ and Gascon. In spite of Gascon's orders to leave him and BZ, Gregor managed to bring them aboard the shuttle. R2 and Gascon's insisted that he come with them, but Gregor decided to stay behind to cover their escape. He harried the Breakaway League by shooting nearby canisters, causing several explosions.
Upon escaping Pons Ora, Beep-Boop and the rest of D-Squad traveled to a Old Republic Carrier-class Space Dominator, which was orbiting Abafar. Upon arriving, they discovered that the Breakaway League had already seized control of the ship and were planning to use the rhydonium-laden to disrupt a crucial Old Republic strategy conference aboard the space station Valor above the planet Carida. Despite Gascon's objections, Beep-Boop and the rest of D-Squad joined forces with the LEP-series service droid Bunny to stop the Separatist plot.
Following a struggle, they managed to neutralize the Separatist forces aboard. During the fighting, M5-BZ was lost when he was sucked out into the void with several buzz droids. Gascon then devised a plan for the rest of D-Squad to evacuate aboard a shuttle while Beep-Boop defused the trigger mechanism. However, they were ambushed by a super tactical droid who led several battle droid reinforcements. While Gascon and U9-C4 opened fire on the battle droids, Beep-Boop tussled with the super tactical droid. As the other droids retreated aboard the shuttle, Gascon refused to leave Beep-Boop behind but WAC initiated liftoff.
Meanwhile, Beep-Boop gained the upper hand over the tactical droid and managed to reprogram the detonator, causing the rhydonium to explode prematurely and destroy the Space Dominator. As a result of D-Squad's efforts, the Old Republic conference and fleet in the Carida system was saved. While Gascon believed that Beep-Boop had perished during the struggle, Stormwalker refused to believe this was so and sent salvage teams to scour the wreckage. They managed to retrieve Beep-Boop and repair the damaged astromech droid. Following the astromech droid's recovery, Gascon personally praised him for his bravery and told D-Squad that he would be honored to work with them again.
Dogfight above Bridge World[]
Beep-Boop, along with his masters Stormwalker and Tano, later participated in the defense of Bridge World. The planet had come under attack from the Breakaway League. During the battle, Stormwalker's starfighter was attacked by buzz droids. After Stormwalker was knocked out by a powerful blast, Beep-Boop took control of the starfighter. Under Ahsoka's orders, he landed the fighter on Bridge World's surface to bring the unconscious Stormwalker to safety.
Shortly after this, Stormwalker and Ahsoka were summoned back to the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet to investigate a bomb attack. Beep-Boop accompanied his masters back to City Planet to assist with the investigation.
Mission to Scipio[]
Beep-Boop later accompanied Army Leader Stormwalker to the planet Scipio. Stormwalker's spouse Planet Speaker Amidala had traveled to Scipio on a mercy mission to secure funds from the InterGalactic Banking Clan to aid refugees displaced by the Nature Wars. The InterGalactic Banking Clan was neutral and was lending money to both the Old Republic and the Breakaway League. However, shortly after arriving, Amidala was arrested for espionage and Stormwalker was sent to negotiate her release.
Beep-Boop and Stormwalker's mission was complicated by the presence of Clovis, the pro-Separatist senator whom Amidala had flirted with during an earlier mission to Bridge World. Clovis had informed Planet Speaker Amidala about corruption in the Banking Clan. Prior to departing Scipio, Stormwalker and Amidala went to retrieve files from a vault in Clovis' alpine residence. After being attacked by the bounty hunter Embo, Stormwalker and Amidala were forced to work with Clovis to escape. Under Stormwalker's orders, Beep-Boop rendezvoused with them and evacuated the area before Embo could land a shot. Using the evidence found in the files, Clovis and Amidala were able to present irrefutable evidence of the Banking Clan's corruption to the Space Congress. With the support of both the Senate and Supreme High Leader Palpatine, Clovis was elected as the new head of the Banking Clan. Unbeknownst to everyone, Clovis was secretly working with the Breakaway League.
Escorting Guru[]
After the Light Guardian Three Eyesd Master Guru was contacted through the Force by the deceased Light Guardian Master Quiet John, Beep-Boop accompanied Guru on a journey to the remote planet of Swamp Planet. After Stormwalker had helped Guru to escape from the infirmary, he'd assigned Beep-Boop to escort Guru to Swamp Planet. During the journey, R2 sat in the droid socket of Guru's fighter. After reaching Swamp Planet, Guru received instructions from Qui-Gon to travel to the "Origin-of-Life" to continue his Light Guardian training.
Beep-Boop and Guru then flew to a mysterious planet which lay in the middle of a cloud of golden energy. Upon entering the cloud, Beep-Boop and Guru's fighter malfunctioned. Trusting in the Force, Guru manually guided his starfighter to a planet which was generating the golden energy. The starfighter landed near a geyser and Guru decided to leave Beep-Boop behind. He also instructed the astromech droid to guard his lightsaber while he re-entered the starfighter to fly into the geyser. After Guru completed his trials on the mysterious planet, he received instructions to travel to the ancient Dark Warrior homeworld of Moraband.
Upon arriving on Moraband, Guru instructed Beep-Boop to wait with his starfighter once again while he went on to continue his Light Guardian trials. The Light Guardian Master also instructed Beep-Boop to return alone to City Planet if he did not return within three days. Guru managed to complete his trials but experienced visions of the Great Light Guardian Purge and the rise of the Space Kingdom. After completing his Light Guardian trials, Beep-Boop accompanied him back to City Planet. However, Guru declined to share any of his experiences with Beep-Boop or his fellow Light Guardian.
Battle of Yerbana and reunion with Ashoka Friend[]
During the Battle of Yerbana, while Anakin distracted the droids, R2 waited along with Rex and the clone jet troopers of the 501st legion for the signal. When the super tactical droid emerged from hiding, Stormwalker gave him the signal and the clones started to attack along with the 212th Attack Battalion.
After Stormwalker and Kenobi received a transmission from Ashoka Friend about the whereabouts of Maul, R2 accompanied them to the hanger to meet with her and members of Lady Bo-Katan Kryze's Warrior Home resistance. Upon seeing Tano, the droid happily went over to his old friend, and she patted him on the dome, although this would be the last time they saw each other for a year. R2 was unable to head with Tano to Warrior Home, as he, Stormwalker, and a force of the 501st were redeployed to City Planet upon learning Army Leader Steel had kidnapped High Leader Palpatine, while Tano and Rex would take the newly-formed 332nd Division to combat Maul.
Battle of City Planet[]
When High Leader Palpatine was captured by Army Leader Steel, Beep-Boop accompanied Stormwalker on the rescue mission. While Stormwalker and Kenobi searched the Separatist flagship, the Invisible Hand, for the High Leader, Beep-Boop encountered some super battle droids and succeeded in destroying them by spraying oil onto the ground and then igniting it. He then penetrated the Separatist flagship and managed to reunite with Stormwalker, Kenobi, and Palpatine. Stormwalker had freed the High Leader and killed Noble Title Noble. Shortly later, they were captured by Army Leader Steel' droids and taken to the command bridge. Following another struggle, Stormwalker managed to break free and turn the tables on Grievous. Defeated, Grievous fled in an escape pod. Hit by Old Republic fire, the Invisible Hand began descending into City Planet, with the Light Guardian and chancellor in it. However, Stormwalker managed to land what was left of the vessel — but with considerable difficulty. Once on the ground Beep-Boop met up with Gold Talker — but, while the group had this initial victory in the Battle of City Planet, soon the astromech droid would witness the the Great Light Guardian Purge and the Old Republic's transformation into the Space Kingdom.
Age of the Empire[]
Losing Andy Stormwalker[]
After Andy Stormwalker fell to the dark side and became a Dark Warrior apprentice under the name "Bart Gleider," Beep-Boop continued to accompany him out of loyalty, but he made sure to warn Gold Talker of the changing circumstances when they returned to Amidala's apartment aboard their green Actis-class light interceptor. Afterward, Beep-Boop accompanied Vader to Lava World in the starfighter, but the newly-christened Dark Warrior ordered his droid to stay behind at the ship when he entered the Klegger Corp Mining Facility to cut down the Executive Separatist Council. After Vader did so and ensured the Separatist Metal Helper Army was shut down, bringing the Nature Wars to an end with a victory for the newly-established Space Kingdom Palpatine transformed the Old Republic into, Beep-Boop was still present as Vader ran out of the facility to reunite with Amidala when she arrived on Lava World in her J-type Water Realm star skiff with Gold Talker.
As Vader began to argue with Amidala after Kenobi, having snuck aboard Amidala's ship, revealed himself, Beep-Boop watched as his master Force choked his wife, leaving her to fall to the ground. After watching the duel between Kenobi and Vader, Beep-Boop was left with the belief that Vader had died and thus left the planet with Kenobi, Amidala, and Gold Talker aboard the star skiff, leaving Vader's Actis interceptor abandoned. They traveled to the Asteroid Base asteroid field, where Royal Lady gave birth to twin children before dying. Following Royal Lady's death, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker passed into the service of Bail Organa of the Royal House of Peace Star, Peace Star's Planet Speaker and a good friend of the late Amidala. While Gold Talker underwent a memory wipe, Beep-Boop was allowed to preserve his memories.
Reunion with Ashoka Friend[]
A year after the end of the Nature Wars, Beep-Boop served Ship Leader Raymus Antilles. After receiving news of Light Guardian activity on the remote Outer Rim moon Raada, Planet Speaker Bail Organa took back the R2 unit from Ship Leader Antilles. This Light Guardian turned out to be Beep-Boop's old acquaintance Ashoka Friend, a former Light Guardian Student who had inspired a resistance movement on Raada. Planet Speaker Organa assigned Beep-Boop to accompany the pilots Chardri Tage and Tamsin on a secret mission to find the Light Guardian and to rendezvous with his starship Tantive IV. Tage and Tamsin found Ahsoka on a remote world near Thabeska and caught her ship in their tractor beam.
Believing they were hostile, Tano knocked Tage and Tamsin unconscious. While making her way through the ship's engine room to reach the cockpit, Ahsoka encountered Beep-Boop and hugged the astromech droid, having missed his company. Since he had not received a memory wipe, Beep-Boop recognized his old friend and told her that he and the pilots were working for a senator who wanted to meet her. At Tano's prompting, Beep-Boop told Ahsoka that Bail Organa was the senator. Tano managed to convince Beep-Boop to release the tractor beam from her freighter, tell nobody he had met her, and to make sure that she could track his ship. Tano then waited in her ship in a nearby asteroid field until Planet Speaker Organa arrived in the Tantive IV.
When Tage and Tamsin awoke, Beep-Boop pretended to have been short-circuited by Tano in order to cover up his role in helping her escape. However, Bail realized Beep-Boop's role in Tano's escape after viewing a clip of the security footage in the engine room. After delivering his report, Tage rendezvoused with the Tantive IV and returned Beep-Boop to his master. Beep-Boop was greeted by Gold Talker, who berated his companion. When Planet Speaker Organa arrived, Beep-Boop informed her and left a hatch on the Tantive IV open. Ahsoka managed to infiltrate the ship with a pressure suit and entered Organa's office.
After Ahsoka informed him about Beep-Boop's role in her escape, Organa joked that the droid was too independent and ought to be deactivated. Ahsoka responded that Beep-Boop had had a lot of "bad role models." When Organa mentioned Andy Stormwalker, Ahsoka clarified she was referring to the late Planet Speaker Amidala. After Tano agreed to take part in a mission on Raada to investigate the Truth Seeker known as the Sixth Brother, Beep-Boop helped Ship Leader Antilles' crew in repairing her damaged freighter. While Beep-Boop was repairing the engines, Ahsoka spent time with him and told him that she missed him. When the engines hummed to life, Ahsoka thanked the astromech droid. Following the successful evacuation of the farming population on Raada, Ahsoka joined Planet Speaker Organa's rebel movement and became the elusive spymaster known as "Fulcrum."
Service to Bail Organa[]
In 9 BBY, when the young Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle ran off into the woods, R2 was assisting with the repairs in the palace.
Mission to Garel[]
Five years before the Battle of Jungle Moon, Planet Speaker Bail Organa sent Beep-Boop and his counterpart, Gold Talker to escort the Imperial Minister Maketh Tua and the Water Being arms dealer Amda Wabo to the planet Garel. Minister Tua wanted to obtain a shipment of T-7 ion disruptor rifles, illicit weapons which had been banned by the Imperial Senate following the brutal pacification of Lasan. She intended to mass-produce the weapons on Grassland, a formerly backwater Outer Rim world that had become a manufacturing base for the Empire. Since Tua could not speak the Water Being language, Gold Talker was assigned the job of acting as her translator. However, Beep-Boop was aware about the true nature of their mission: preventing the T-7 ion disruptors from falling into Imperial hands. By contrast, Gold Talker was deliberately kept in the dark.
Upon arriving in Grassland, Beep-Boop and his companions boarded the Star Commuter 2000 shuttle ST-45, which ferried them to Garel. Unknown to Beep-Boop, members of a Grasslandian rebel cell were also traveling on the same shuttle. Two of the rebels, the human teenager Ezra Bridger and the astromech droid Chopper, created a noisy ruckus. Another rebel, the former Light Guardian Kanan Jarrus, pretended to be irate and demanded that the petulant Chopper be sent to the back of the shuttle. The pilot complied, but in retaliation, Bridger demanded that Tua's droids be sent to the back as well. Despite Tua's and Gold Talker's protests, Beep-Boop and his protocol counterpart were forced to move to the rear compartment.
Bereft of a translator, Tua was forced to turn to the Armored One girl Sabine Wren, who posed as an Imperial Academy student fluent in Water Being. However, Sabine was also a member of the Grasslandian rebel cell who were planning to deliver the shipment of weapons to the Red Devil crime lord Cikatro Vizago. Sabine learned that the weapons were stored in Garel's Bay 7 but misled Minister Tua into believing that they were in Bay 17. After the shuttle landed in Garel's spaceport, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker accompanied Minister Tua and a force of stormtroopers to Bay 17. When they found nothing, Gold Talker explained that Sabine might have accidentally mistranslated "Bay 7" as "Bay 17."
While traveling to Bay 7, Beep-Boop was accosted by Chopper, who had been sent to distract the Imperials. Chopper rammed himself into Beep-Boop, then shook his arm in apparent anger. In response, Beep-Boop whipped out his electro-shock prod, but did not use it as Gold Talker ordered him to apologize. But then, Minister Tua recognized Chopper from the shuttle ride to Garel and ordered her stormtrooper guards to hurry to Bay 7. By the time they arrived at Bay 7, the Grasslandian rebels were already loading the T-7 ion disruptors onto the Ghost, a VCX-100 light freighter which served as their headquarters. A blaster fight broke out and in the ensuing confusion, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker fled aboard the Ghost, which fled into hyperspace. The two droids were then taken prisoner by the Grasslandian rebels who placed restraining bolts on both of them.
The Spectres then traveled back to Grassland to sell the stolen weapons and the two stowaway droids to Vizago at a pre-arranged rendezvous point. Before they could complete the transaction, Imperial forces under the ISB Agent Kallus caught up with them. Unbeknownst to Chopper and the other crew, Gold Talker had contacted the Imperial authorities telling them that he and his astromech counterpart had been kidnapped by a group of "criminals" in Garel. Carrying out Organa's orders, Beep-Boop proceeded to overload and destroy the T-7 disruptors with the help of Sabine and Chopper. During the fighting, the rebels managed to destroy the T-7 disruptors and to escape their Imperial pursuers. Following their escape, the crew of the Ghost rendezvoused with Planet Speaker Bail Organa and returned Beep-Boop and Gold Talker to their rightful owner. In return for destroying the T-7 disruptors, Planet Speaker Organa paid the Spectres several credits to cover their living expenses. After the rebels had departed, Beep-Boop showed Bail Organa a recording of his time with them.
Picking up EG-86[]
Following the rescue of the Light Guardian rebel Kanan Jarrus and the Siege of Grassland, Beep-Boop was part of an Peace Starian reception party at Havoc Outpost, which greeted the Spectre rebels Wren and Chopper, the bounty hunter Ketsu Onyo and their special cargo: the GNK-series power droid EG-86, who was carrying some secret intelligence of value to the rebel network. Beep-Boop whistled when he greeted EG-86, who whistled back in return.
Hero of the rebellion[]
The Doom Sphere Plans[]
Beep-Boop was with Gold Talker at the Freedom League's secret base on Jungle Moon 4 at the time the Alliance Fleet prepared to leave for the Battle of Beach Fortress to help reinforce Rogue One, an unofficial squad that had traveled to Beach Fortress to retrieve the plans for the Space Kingdom's Doom Sphere, a new superweapon capable of destroying entire worlds.
The Alliance succeeded in stealing the plans for the superweapon. Beep-Boop and his protocol counterpart Gold Talker were serving Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle's blockade runner Tantive IV, which was being pursued by Bart Gleider's Imperial-class Space Dominator. Planet Speaker Organa's adopted daughter Leia was now Peace Star's Planet Speaker in the Imperial Senate, one of the last remnants of the Old Old Republic. During the pursuit, the Tantive IV was crippled by a laser blast from Vader's ship and Imperial stormtroopers boarded the vessel. After Daughter Ruler Leia uploaded the secret Doom Sphere plans and a holographic message for Master Kenobi into Beep-Boop's memory bank, he and Gold Talker fled in an escape pod to the desert planet Desertia.
After quarreling in the Jundland Wastes, the two droids parted ways. While Beep-Boop was traveling past a cave, he was stunned and captured by several Jawas, who took him aboard a sandcrawler. There, he managed to reunite with Gold Talker, who had also been captured. During the night, Beep-Boop attempted to sabotage an R5 unit named R5-D4 but relented when the astromech droid awoke. Though R5-D4 desired to be sold, Beep-Boop told the droid that the fate of the galaxy depended on him being sold and that he needed to find Master Kenobi. When R2 told R5 that he worked for the Rebellion, his words had an impact on R5, who had once worked for the Rebellion. Having established a rapport with the other astromech droid, Beep-Boop promised not to trouble R5-D4 for the rest of the journey.
The following day, the Jawas visited a moisture farm that was the home of Owen Lars, his wife Beru, and their adopted nephew Mike Stormwalker, the son of Andy Stormwalker. Lars bought Threepio and then bought R5-D4. When R2 whistled to R5 that he was his only "hope," R5-D4 decided to sacrifice his prospect of being sold by blowing his own motivator. As a result, Owen bought Beep-Boop. While Threepio settled down to his new home, Beep-Boop wanted to continue his mission to find Master Ben Kenobi. Despite Threepio's objections, Beep-Boop escaped one night into the Jundland Wastes. Gold Talker and Stormwalker followed him in a landspeeder and caught up with Beep-Boop. However, they were then ambushed by a gang of Tusken Raiders.
During the Tusken attack, Beep-Boop hid in a cave. Before the Tusken Raiders could do any more harm, Ben Kenobi arrived and scared them away. After claiming to not recognize R2, he then brought Stormwalker, Beep-Boop, and Gold Talker companions to his dwelling. There, Kenobi revealed Stormwalker's Light Guardian heritage and passed him his father's lightsaber, telling the boy that his father Anakin had been murdered by someone named Bart Gleider. After Artoo played Daughter Ruler Leia's message, Kenobi asked Mike to accompany him to Peace Star, Daughter Ruler Leia's homeworld. Stormwalker was initially reluctant until he discovered that Imperial stormtroopers had murdered his relatives and razed their moisture farm. Later, Beep-Boop and his companions traveled to the spaceport of Mos Eisley with the intention of finding passage to Peace Star.
Upon arriving in the settlement, they were stopped by a stormtrooper patrol who were hunting for Beep-Boop and Threepio. However, Kenobi used a Light Guardian mind trick to convince the stormtroopers to give them free passage through the town. Beep-Boop and Gold Talker were denied entry to Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina due to a rule banning droids. While Kenobi and Stormwalker negotiated with the smuggler John Lonely and his Hairy Friend co-pilot Fluffy, the two droids wandered the streets of Mos Eisley and narrowly evaded a stormtrooper patrol. Later, they boarded John Lonely's ship, the Old Fastship and fled into hyperspace.
Rescuing the Daughter Ruler[]
As they traveled through hyperspace, R2 sat beside Kenobi, who secretly had recognized R2. Placing his hand on the astromech's dome, Kenobi quietly told R2 he was happy to fly with him once again. Upon arriving in the Peace Star system, Beep-Boop and his companions discovered that the Empire had used the Doom Sphere to destroy Peace Star. At that moment, the Old Fastship was captured in the tractor beam of the Doom Sphere. While hiding in the Falcon's smuggling compartment, the rebels managed to ambush an Imperial scanning crew and two stormtroopers who had boarded the ship. The rebels then seized control of an Imperial control room and discovered that Daughter Ruler Leia was located in Detention Block AA-23, pending execution. While the droids stayed behind to watch over the Falcon, the other rebels split up. While Lonely, Mike, and Fluffy headed to Detention Block AA-23, Kenobi went to disable the Doom Sphere's tractor beam projector.
Stormwalker, Lonely, and Fluffy managed to free the Daughter Ruler, but their cover was blown and they had to hide in a garbage chute. The Imperials realized that the rebels were trapped in the garbage chute and proceeded to crush the chamber. Meanwhile, Artoo and Threepio escaped an Imperial patrol by claiming that the rebels had thrown them into the storage compartment. Once the Imperials had gone, the two droids were contacted by Stormwalker, who ordered them to shut down the garbage compactor. Beep-Boop succeeded in shutting down the garbage compactor just in time. After grappling with more stormtroopers, the other rebels and the Daughter Ruler managed to return to their hangar bay where they linked up with the two droids.
Meanwhile, Master Kenobi had managed to shut down the tractor beam projector but was cornered by his former apprentice Bart Gleider on the way back. While Kenobi gave his life in a duel, Beep-Boop and the other rebels took the opportunity to flee the Doom Sphere on the Old Fastship. After dispatching several pursuing TIE fighters, Beep-Boop and his companions escaped to Jungle Moon 4, where the rebels maintained a base. There, they managed to access the Doom Sphere plans stored inside Artoo's memory banks. Unbeknownst to the rebels, the Empire had planted a tracking device aboard the Falcon which allowed them to discover the rebel base on Jungle Moon 4.
Battle of Jungle Moon[]
Beep-Boop and Mike Stormwalker participated in the Battle of Jungle Moon. With the Doom Sphere approaching Jungle Moon 4, the rebel leadership ordered a starfighter strike on the battle station. Rebel tacticians had discovered that the Doom Sphere contained one weak point—a small thermal exhaust port narrow enough for an Cross Fighter fighter to fire a proton torpedo into the space station's reactor core. During the battle, Beep-Boop served as the astromech unit aboard Stormwalker's Cross Fighter starfighter.
Despite initial successes, the Rebels suffered numerous casualties from the Empire's nimble TIE fighters. Following two failed attempts to penetrate the trench which led to the thermal exhaust port, Stormwalker and two other Cross Fighter pilots, Wedge Flyer and Biggs Darklighter, made one final attempt to reach the exhaust port. However, the found themselves pursued by Bart Gleider's TIE Advanced starfighter and two other TIE fighters.
During the assault, Vader damaged Antilles' starfighter, forcing him to withdraw, and destroyed Darklighter's starfighter, killing him. Undaunted, Stormwalker continued the mission. Vader strafed Stormwalker's Cross Fighter and damaged Beep-Boop, who short-circuited as a result of a direct laser hit. Before Vader could move in for the kill, he was ambushed by John Lonely's Old Fastship, which eliminated Vader's wingmen and forced him to disengage. Stormwalker then fired the proton torpedoes, which destroyed the Doom Sphere, scoring a major victory for the Rebellion. Following the battle, Beep-Boop was repaired and fully restored. The astromech droid later attended a victory celebration where Stormwalker, Lonely, and other rebel pilots were awarded medals for their combat valor.
Peace Star's survival[]
Following the medal ceremony in the Great Temple, Beep-Boop accompanied Leia and the Peace Starian starfighter pilot Evaan Verlaine to the worlds of Water Realm, Espirion, and Volcanic World on a mission to save the survivors of Peace Star. Since Army Leader Dodonna had forbidden Daughter Ruler Leia from leaving Jungle Moon 4, Daughter Ruler Leia recorded a transmission of Beep-Boop recording a message telling the Army Leader about her mission to save the Peace Starian refugees scattered across the galaxy. Beep-Boop was aboard Leia and Verlaine's T-1 shuttle when Verlaine outran several Cross Fighter starfighters that had been sent to bring them back to Jungle Moon.
After landing in the Water Realm city of Keren, Beep-Boop accompanied Daughter Ruler Leia and Verlaine when they visited the home of Lord Junn, a wealthy Peace Starian expatriate who provided the group with information about the whereabouts of the Melodic Order. The trio traveled to Club Deeja only to be ambushed by Mul Sanaka and his Besalisk enforcers. Beep-Boop used his electric cables to knock out one of the Besalisks. The droid then accompanied his master, Verlaine, and the Melodic Order offworld on a T-1 shuttle and Lord Junn's eponymous yacht.
The group then traveled to the planet Volcanic World to contact Preserver Jora Astane's Peace Star Enclave, who lived underground. Beep-Boop accompanied Leia and Verlaine through the caves and tunnels. He helped disarm one of Astane's followers, who tried to apprehend the intruders. In order to convince Jora to trust them, Leia allowed Covis to download data from Beep-Boop's memory banks including the Lord Junn's weapons profile, navigational history, and transmissions.
When Covis intercepted transmissions between the singer Tace and her sister, Tula, who was stationed aboard an Imperial cruiser, Jora thought that Leia and her group were Imperial spies and tried to apprehend them. Beep-Boop and the humans escaped down a tunnel hatch which led the den of the rockrenders, large beasts that feasted on metals. Meanwhile, Imperial stormtroopers attacked the Peace Star Enclave upstairs. Beep-Boop with the help of Verlaine managed to lure the rockrenders into the Enclave's den. The rockrenders turned the tide of the battle by attacking the stormtroopers, feasting on their mineral rich armor. This gained the trust of Jora's followers and they pledged their allegiance to Daughter Ruler Leia.
Salvation over Espirion[]
A week later, Beep-Boop was present when the rebels obtained a shipment of weapons from the Big Ear Nien Laugh. After Daughter Ruler Leia undertook a mission to rescue Tace's sister, Tula by pretending to surrender herself to the Empire, Beep-Boop accompanied his master on their T-1 shuttle. Prior to landing on the desert world of Skaradosh, Daughter Ruler Leia told Beep-Boop that she would see him on the "other side," leading the others to believe that Daughter Ruler Leia was planning to die and go to "droid heaven."
Leia's surrender turned out to be a ruse. Following the prisoner exchange, Verlaine swooped down on the Mellcrawler and killed Unit Leader Dreed and his men. Beep-Boop and Nien Laugh manned the Mellcrawler's cockpit during the rescue mission. After launching a decoy ship, the group traveled to the planet Espirion where the Peace Star Flotilla had gathered after learning of Leia's mission to gather them. When Dreed's subordinate Venk attacked the flotilla, Beep-Boop beamed Leia's speech directly to the Alder-Espirion Chief Beon Beonel. Swayed by Leia's words, he dispatched the Alder-Espirion warship Espirion Multi, which destroyed Venk's Space Dominator.
Following the battle above Espirion, Beep-Boop attended the victory celebrations where Daughter Ruler Leia learnt that her droid had beamed her speech directly to Chief Beonel. This repaired relations between the Peace Starians and Alder-Espirions. Beep-Boop then accompanied his Daughter Ruler back to Jungle Moon 4 to continue fighting for the Rebellion. Upon landing, Beep-Boop reunited with Gold Talker while Leia chatted with John, Mike, and Fluffy.
Weapons Factory Alpha[]
Several weeks after the Battle of Jungle Moon, Beep-Boop took part in the Rebel Assault on Cymoon. Cymoon 1 was a moon in the Shipyard Worldn Industrial Cluster, that housed the largest weapons factory in the galaxy—Weapons Factory Alpha. The factory was also the main target of the assault. Beep-Boop, Mike Stormwalker, Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle, and John Lonely boarded a shuttle that had been intercepted by the Rebel Fleet several days earlier. The shuttle was sent from the crime lord Jabba the Slug, and had housed an envoy that was to negotiate with the Empire. But due to Lonely's past ties with the Giant Slug, the Rebels were able to pass themselves off as the envoy, and were escorted into the factory by Overseer Aggadeen.
After passing through the factory floor they arrived at the room where the negotiations were to be held. The Overseer invited them in to await the negotiator, but John revealed that they weren't there to negotiate and gave Beep-Boop the signal. Beep-Boop began pouring a green liquid onto the floor, he then he electrocuted the fluid with his electric pike. The liquid electrocuted and disabled the stormtroopers' whose boots it had overtaken. Mike, John, and Leia then finished off the remaining troopers. John asked Aggadeen where the main power core was, but the proud Imperial officer refused to answer — until Beep-Boop threatened to electrocute him too. Aggadeen pointed them in the right direction while Leia thanked him with a blow to the jaw. They arrived at the power core, where R2 plugged into the main computer and shut off all the safety restraints. Soon they had rigged the core to blow up in ten minutes' time. John noticed that Mike was missing, but a minute later he arrived with more passengers — slaves of the Empire. The team prepared to retreat while Gold Talker, who was waiting with the Old Fastship in the huge refuse fields that surrounded the factory, brought the Falcon in to pick them up for their escape. Fluffy, who was stationed on a large metal structure overlooking the landing platform where they had originally entered, reported that Bart Gleider, the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior, had arrived. Leia ordered the wookiee to kill Vader using his bowcaster. The wookiee tried but was thwarted by the dark lord. Fluffy was out of contact, the entire moon was on alert and Gold Talker still hadn't arrived. Soon, Gold Talker informed the team via comlink that the old freighter was being dismantled by native scavengers, and as such, the Falcon's autopilot was out of order. John realized their escape had been foiled and led the team—with slaves in tow, to a large warehouse that housed several newly minted All Terrain Armored Transports walkers. John ordered everyone on board, they were going to walk right out of the factory.
John, Leia, and several slaves boarded the walker. John piloted it through the heart of the factory smashing holes over twenty meters high through the facility's walls. Mike reappeared after confronting Vader and bid the slaves to follow him as he followed John in the Walky Dog. Meanwhile Beep-Boop and his former enemies, the Jawas, began rewiring the walker's laser cannons to get them operational. John was arguing about their chances of death with Vader on their tail; John asked the astromech on their progress. Beep-Boop, replied but John did not understand the droid language of Binary. John believed Beep-Boop and the Jawas would get the cannons working—they just needed to give them the time. A short time later, John attempted to step on Bart Gleider with the Walky Dog's massive feet. Vader used the dark side of the Force to hold the walker's foot several meters above himself and the ground—John couldn't believe it. Vader began to crush the armored transport using the force, John told Beep-Boop "We need those guns!" Beep-Boop spoke in his customary beeps and clicks; which Leia translated to "Fire!" The Walky Dog opened fire on the Dark Warrior Lord and the factory walls as John drove out of the facility. Leia was so happy she wanted to kiss the little droid—much to John's annoyance.
The Walky Dog continued its escape outside, where it became vulnerable to attack from TIE fighters and other vehicles. John and Leia realized that it had been too long — the factory should have melted down and exploded before this time. Fluffy survived Vader's attack and returned to the Falcon, and was preparing to bring it in and extract the team. However, Vader was right beneath the walker, using his lightsaber to cut through the back left leg of the Walky Dog. The walker fell, crashing tremendously; John, Leia, R2, and the slaves emerged from the wreckage and began retreating into the trash fields. Mike, mounted on a 74-Z speeder bike, returned to the factory and fired upon the core reactor — causing the facility to explode. While Vader and the Imperials were distracted Fluffy swooped in with John's Falcon and everyone boarded the freighter. Leia took over the controls as John was mildly injured and unable to pilot. Fluffy repaired the hyperdrive and they fled to lightspeed. The now free slaves rejoiced while R2 went to work repairing Gold Talker who had been dismantled into pieces by the scavengers.
To Desertia with Mike[]
Later, the Old Fastship and its passengers rendezvoused with the Rebel fleet on the edge of the galaxy. While the team recovered and was debriefed, R2 and 3PO argued over whether R2 had incorrectly assembled 3PO after escaping Bart Gleider on Cymoon 1. Soon thereafter, R2 boarded Mike's T-65B Cross Fighter to leave the Rebel fleet. Lonely and Organa argued against Mike's leaving, but Mike assured them he and R2 would be safe for he was anonymous to the Empire; and that he needed to find answers on who he really was. At Mike's request, Artoo set course to again go to Desertia in the Tatoo system.
Soon, Mike and R2 set down in the Jundland Wastes, and began the trek through the desert to Kenobi's former home. The suns were setting when they neared the hut, while Mike divulged in his reasoning for returning; nearly everything he knew about the Force he had learned from Ben Kenobi, and he believed that he sometimes heard the disembodied voice of the Light Guardian Master. However, Mike was interrupted when a Tusken Raider appeared and attacked him. R2 readied his electric pike, but did not have to use it, because at familiar sight of Mike's lightsaber, they ran. Mike was relieved: he hadn't needed to kill them, although, the Raiders had ransacked Kenobi's home. R2 went to work with his flashlight to locate anything Kenobi may have left to aid Mike in his journey to learn the Light Guardian way. While searching, Mike openly wondered why Kenobi had chosen to stay on Desertia after all he had experienced. R2 knew it was to protect Mike from the Dark Warrior, until he was of age to become a Light Guardian — although, following Kenobi's lead, he did not tell the former-farmboy. Just then, a flash grenade tumbled into the room and exploded; temporarily blinding Mike, and short-circuiting R2.
While R2's systems rebooted, Mike fought Bobby Hunter, a bounty hunter sent by Bart Gleider to capture Mike and bring him to the Dark Lord—although it was unknown to both Mike and Artoo at the time. Mike used his lightsaber and knocked Fett backwards where he tripped over R2. The two combatants, Fett with his Armored One armor, and Mike with the Force — though still blind — fought. Mike became more bloodied, and Fett more impatient. R2 soon recovered, got back up, and watched as the box marked "For Mike" floated into the air and flew across the room where it knocked Fett unconscious. Mike wondered aloud how he had done it, before asking Beep-Boop to lead them back to the Cross Fighter, for he was still unable to see. Later, as Desertia's suns rose over the desert, Mike had recovered enough of his sight to open the box and examine its contents: "The Journals of Ben Kenobi." They then left the desert world.
The Space Pirate's Moon[]
Following their departure from Desertia, Mike read an excerpt from Ben's Journal while Beep-Boop navigated. Frustrated by the journal's lack of proper Light Guardian training, Mike plotted a course for Nar Shaddaa in order to gain passage to City Planet, intent on locating the Light Guardian Temple there. Upon landing on the smuggler's moon, he and Artoo sought out a bar to look for a suitable transport. Entering the bar, he explained his case to all the bar patrons. After no one responded, the bar's Horned One bartender instructed that the patrons dispatch with him immediately.
Beep-Boop could only look on as Mike attempted to fight them off, but the brawl abruptly ended when he ignited his lightsaber. The Horned One explained that he could ensure passage if Mike handed over his lightsaber as payment, which Mike refused to do. As the deal began to fall apart, an alien bar patron stole Mike's lightsaber using their magna-glove and took off, with Mike and the entire bar giving chase.
While jumping over rooftops in an effort to catch the lightsaber thief, Mike contacted R2 over his comlink, saying that they needed to get his lightsaber back as it was the only link he had to the Light Guardian. R2 did in fact catch up to Mike, just in time to witness him making a dangerous leap from the rooftops to a departing ship that the thief had magnetized to. Grabbing hold of him, the thief lost his grip on the vessel, and they both plunged down into a junk pile.
Mike recuperated quickly, reclaiming his lightsaber and leaving the thief in a daze. Inquiring R2 as to why the bar patrons had seemingly given up chasing after them, Grakkus the Giant Slug and two of his magnaguards arrived on the scene, explaining that since Mike was now in Giant Sluga Town, he and his lightsaber now belonged to Grakkus; Mike attempted to resist capture, but Grakkus' magnaguards made short work of him. Beep-Boop made himself scarce and avoided capture, following Mike to Grakkus' palace and plotting to break him out. During this time he sent a distress call out to Alliance Command, who were initially hesitant to dispatch a rescue team, but Fluffy offered his and Gold Talker's services to track him down.
At this point, John Lonely, Daughter Ruler Leia, and an unwilling Sana Starros joined the rescue effort. While Gold Talker calculated the odds of infiltrating the palace as being utterly impossible, Beep-Boop simply blended in with the crowd and entered the palace unnoticed. As the event began, with Mike facing off against a cybernetically enhanced roggwart in the palace arena, R2 watched his master from the crowd.
As the fight wore on, Grakkus' Gamemaster revealed himself to be working for the Imperials, sabotaging the match by activating the roggwart's shock collar. As Grakkus' magnaguards were gunned down by an invasion of Imperial forces, R2 slipped away to the Giant Slug's collection room of Light Guardian artifacts and located Mike's lightsaber, in addition to several others on a table. Returning to the arena, which had erupted into chaos after Grakkus released the roggwart from its shock collar, R2 fired Mike's lightsaber directly to him in the arena below, and Mike successfully retrieved it.
John, Leia, and Fluffy easily infiltrated the now defenseless palace, and after narrowly avoiding the rampaging roggwart was reunited with R2, who promptly revealed that he had stolen four more lightsabers. As Grakkus had rendered all blasters useless with a localized E.M.P. burst, the functioning lightsabers proved extremely valuable to the group, with John and Leia taking one each and Chewie brandishing one in each hand.
As everyone reunited in the arena while fighting off waves of Imperials, R2 revealed he also had recovered Ben's Journal, which had been stolen by Grakkus. Mike wanted to go back to the Light Guardian artifact room, but more stormtroopers with working blasters entered the arena so they made a hasty retreat to rendezvous with the Old Fastship and the Volt Cobra, leaving the smuggler's moon behind.
Battle of Vrogas Vas[]
Sometime after regrouping with the Rebel fleet, Beep-Boop accompanied Mike as part of Red Squadron to the secret rebel refueling base on Vrogas Vas. Mike was also there to investigate the possibility of the planet's ties to the Light Guardian. During a maneuvering drill in space with Blue and Yellow Squadrons, Bart Gleider in his TIE Advanced dropped out of hyperspace directly in front of the group. Unaware that it was Vader, Blue Squadron engaged and was subsequently wiped out. After Yellow Squadron met a similar fate, Mike realized who was piloting the TIE and realized no one would be able to best him in starfighter combat. Breaking formation, and after apologizing to R2, Mike flew headlong into Vader's TIE, crippling both fighters and forcing them to crash-land on the surface.
Mike and Beep-Boop came out of their crash unscathed, and began making their way back to base; searching for traces of the Light Guardian would have to wait for another time. In the distance they could see Vader rampaging against waves of rebel forces, and Artoo comforted Mike as he blamed himself for the countless deaths happening at Vader's hands. On their way back to the base, Mike and R2 came upon the remains of a Light Guardian Temple. As Mike tried to make sense of what he thought was a Force vision, they were discovered by Gold Talker. Beep-Boop tried to warn Mike, but it was too late; with Mike's back turned, Threepio revealed himself to be 0-0-0, the protocol droid working for Doctor Aphra who specialized in torture, and incapacitated Mike with an intense shock to his shoulder.
Beep-Boop tried to protect his master from Aphra and her droids. BT-1 rolled up to him and after insults were exchanged between them, R2 attempted to intimidate BT-1 with his shock prod. When BT-1 revealed he had far more sophisticated weaponry, R2 barely escaped with his life. As R2 watched helplessly as Mike was being taken away by Aphra, John and Chewie arrived on the scene. John engaged Aphra with a sniper rifle as Chewie snuck up and brawled with 0-0-0, tearing one of his arms off. Mike came to and kicked BT-1 over, but as R2 regrouped with him they discovered BT had rocket boosters, and ran for cover as he pursued them.
Meanwhile, John had successfully incapacitated Aphra (and himself). Temporarily eluding BT-1, Mike cut off Triple-Zero's other arm with his lightsaber after the protocol droid had injected Fluffy with 500 mg of Armored One xenotox. After waking John up, the group tried to leave but were blocked by 0-0-0 and BT-1. This time, however, Beep-Boop had a different trick up his sleeve. Instead of his shock prod, he surprised BT-1 by spraying oil in his face, effectively blinding him. BT-1 began firing off rockets in random directions in a murderous rage, allowing Mike, John, Chewie, and Artoo to make a hasty escape.
Making it back to the Old Fastship, John said an antidote for the poison in Fluffy was on the ship, and Mike instructed Beep-Boop to administer it. Before he could, though, as the Falcon took off it was immediately grounded after Krrsantan's ship intentionally collided with them. Krrsantan blew a hole into the cockpit and extracted Mike, but was attacked by Fluffy. John told Mike to go find Leia, as she was planning to sacrifice herself to vanquish Vader once and for all. At the same time, Leia sent Gold Talker to regroup with their friends.
As the fight between John and the two Hairy Friends dragged on, Black Krrsantan gained the upper hand against them. R2 hadn't given Fluffy his antidote yet and couldn't get close to the brawl, but luckily he had loaded it into his casing and fired it at Fluffy's leg. Immediately taking effect, Fluffy roared and launched a successful counterattack against Krrsantan.
Gold Talker had met difficulties on the way to the Old Fastship, in the form of 0-0-0 and BT-1. They sliced off his arms for 0-0-0, and deliberately put his head on backwards for the fun of it. Despite these setbacks, he still made it to the Falcon, but only to find that Mike had been captured and Black Krrsantan had gained the upper hand again. Beep-Boop held out a comlink for 3PO to update Leia on their circumstances, who reluctantly agreed to withdraw from the duel she was witnessing between Vader and Unit Leader Karbin in order to help them.
Gold Talker called on Black Krrsantan to stop fighting, which unwittingly worked as when Krrsantan instead punched him in the chest, his fried circuits connected with Krrsantan's brass knuckles, electrocuting and knocking out both of them. John and Chewie gradually recovered and R2 rebooted 3PO's systems, just in time to see a captive Mike depart and subsequently crash in a Lambda-class T-4a shuttle. The group rendezvoused with Mike, but upon reaching the Falcon were ambushed by Aphra, who had laid out a field of micro-mines preventing them from leaving. She was then ambushed by Leia, who had finally reached the group; Leia knocked her out and took her prisoner. With everyone back together, the Old Fastship departed Vrogas Vas.
At Sunspot Prison[]
Sometime following the events on Vrogas Vas, Beep-Boop alongside Gold Talker escorted Leia and Sana Starros aboard the Volt Cobra, as they brought Doctor Aphra to be incarcerated at the highly secret Sunspot Prison, a facility closely orbiting a star. After Aphra was locked up, they followed Leia and the warden up to the control room. Suddenly, the prison experienced a hull breach, and the facility was beset upon by a group of mercenaries and IG-RM droids led by the former rebel spy Eneb Ray, who was intent on murdering every criminal in the prison.
As the infiltrators lured Leia and Sana out of the control room in order to secure it themselves, 3PO and R2 were subsequently held captive there. Meanwhile, Leia and Sana rescued Aphra from being executed by an IG-RM droid, and recruited her to help take back the facility. They worked their way through the facility, eventually reaching the control room. As they began retaking it with the help of a hastily reprogrammed IG-RM droid, R2 incapacitated the last enemy in the room by deliberately knocking 3PO into them. With the room secure, Leia instructed R2 plug into the system and take control of the prison, just as John and Mike reached the facility only to be immediately subdued by Eneb Ray.
Leia, Sana and Aphra confronted Eneb, who gave Leia a choice: kill Aphra, or John and Mike die. Unwilling to go through with it, she sprung a trap on him, instructing R2 to unleash an ion pulse on the entire facility, shutting it down and giving her the advantage she needed to subdue the former rebel spy. Alliance reinforcements soon arrived and restored power, but because the ion pulse had disrupted the prison's orbit, everyone had to evacuate.
Rescue of Gold Talker[]
Following the Hijacking of the Harbinger and Gold Talker's capture, R2, worried about his friend, decided to stage a rescue mission. Before he left, he had Fluffy upgrade his weapons systems. He takes an X-Wing and jumps to Threepio's coordinates. After arriving he powered down his ship and let himself be taken by the Destroyer. After taking out an inspection team, R2 made his way to a terminal and found out where Gold Talker was held. After taking out dozens of White Soldiers along the way he managed to find his friend and free him. As they escaped on their X-Wing, Bart Gleider was on their tail until Mike and John managed to save them and they jumped to hyperspace.
The Galactic Civil War's final phase[]
Battle of Ice World[]
Later, the Freedom League established a base on the remote icy planet of Ice World and Beep-Boop followed his companions there. When Mike Stormwalker failed to return from a snow patrol, John Lonely traveled out on another tauntaun to rescue him. When both men did not return that night, Beep-Boop calculated that they had a poor chance of surviving in the frozen wilderness. Despite his pessimistic assessment, Stormwalker and Lonely were safely recovered by a snowspeeder patrol the following day.
Later, the rebels were forced to evacuate Ice World after Lonely and Fluffy encountered an Imperial probe droid. However, Bart Gleider's fleet blockaded the planet; preventing the rebels from leaving. The Rebels managed to penetrate the Imperial blockade by using an ion cannon to clear away for their ships to flee into hyperspace. As the battle began, Beep-Boop was moving about Echo Base and reacted to the news of incoming Walky Dogs before a small piece of snow broke off from the ceiling, landing on his dome. Following the ground assault, Beep-Boop and his master, Stormwalker left Ice World in an Cross Fighter fighter.
Detour to Swamp Planet[]
Instead of rendezvousing with the rest of the Rebel fleet, Stormwalker traveled to Swamp Planet, a remote swampy world. Earlier, Stormwalker had been visited by a Force spirit of Master Kenobi who told him to visit Swamp Planet where the Light Guardian Master Guru would continue his Light Guardian training. After a rough landing, Beep-Boop was nearly eaten by a dragonsnake, but was later spat out. R2 suffered little serious damage but was muddy and dented.
Shortly after, the two companions encountered a small green creature, who promised to take them to Master Guru. Beep-Boop didn't seem to have a good first impression of Guru and appeared to tussle with him until Stormwalker intervened. While Stormwalker visited the creature's hut, Beep-Boop guarded the Cross Fighter starfighter. Heavy rainfall compelled Beep-Boop to follow them, but ended up peering through an open window as he likely couldn't fit through the doorway. After the green creature revealed himself as Master Guru, Stormwalker began his Light Guardian training. Beep-Boop observed the training from a distance. On one occasion, Beep-Boop was present when Guru used the Force to levitate Stormwalker's Cross Fighter starfighter from the swamp.
On another training exercise, Mike Stormwalker, under Guru's instruction, used the Force to levitate Beep-Boop and several rocks. However, Stormwalker was distracted by a vision of his friend John, Leia, and Fluffy being tortured in a "city in the clouds." Despite Guru and Kenobi's warnings, Stormwalker decided to adjourn his Light Guardian training and leave Swamp Planet to rescue his companions, but vowed to return and complete his training. Unknown to Mike and Beep-Boop, the vision was a trap created by Bart Gleider to lure the young Light Guardian into a trap. Beep-Boop and Mike traveled to Cloud City, a floating city which lay in the gas giant Cloud City.
Rendezvous at Cloud City[]
After landing without any problems, the two entered the complex. While walking through Cloud City, Beep-Boop and Mike caught a glimpse of Daughter Ruler Leia and their companions being taken away by several Imperial stormtroopers. Beep-Boop was separated from Mike after the latter ascended up a turbolift which led him to a carbon-freezing chamber. Later, Beep-Boop managed to link up with Gold Talker, Leia, and Fluffy, who had all been freed by Lando. Lando had earlier betrayed his friend John Lonely, but then in a change of heart, decided to help the rebels escape the Empire. Under Calrissian's instruction, Beep-Boop connected with a power socket which enabled Calrissian to warn the citizens of Cloud City that the Empire had begun occupying the city. After fighting several stormtroopers, Beep-Boop and his companions managed to escape Cloud City on the Old Fastship.
After picking up the wounded Stormwalker, who had lost his hand in combat against Bart Gleider, Beep-Boop and his companions fled into space. However, they were pursued by Bart Gleider's Super Space Dominator Super Dominator. While reattaching Threepio's legs, Beep-Boop was forced to attend to the ship's hyperdrive, which had been disabled by the Imperials. Beep-Boop managed to repair the hyperdrive in the nick of time and the Falcon was able to flee into hyperspace and rejoin the Rebel fleet. Beep-Boop was knocked down by the impact of the jump but survived the incident undamaged. Later, he, along with Gold Talker, Leia, and Stormwalker, watched while Lando and Chewie departed on the Old Fastship to find John Lonely.
Traveling with Stormwalker[]
R2 accompanied Stormwalker on his mission to Serelia. There, the droid saved his master from being drowned by the ex-Light Guardian acolyte Verla after she discovered Bart Gleider claimed Mike was his son.
Scourge[]
R2 was aboard Rebel Leader when he met up with his friend Gold Talker, unknown to him that he was infected by the Scourge. When he approached him, the Scourge tricked him to follow him to an airlock under the guise that it was a mission by Lily Organelle. When he got closer, the Scourge-controlled Gold Talker ripped out his data probe and damaged his dome. Soon after, he was ejected out of the ship.
After realizing his best friend had been infected, Beep-Boop set out to rescue his friend from this new threat to the galaxy. He started by reforming the D-Squad he had been in during the Nature Wars, briefly reuniting with WAC-47 before forming the squad with Aphra's droids 0-0-0 and BT-1 and droid bounty hunters 4-LOM and IG-88B. Afterward, he reunited with fellow former D-Squad member QT-KT. Together, the new D-Squad found the warrior-priest droid Ajax Sigma, who led D-Squad on a successful mission to defeat the Scourge.
Getting a disguise[]
R2 later traveled to Colorful World to meet with Maz Keeper for a disguise for Leia in order to infiltrate Jabba's Palace. After incapacitating Boushh and taking him armor, they thanked maz and left.
Rescuing John Lonely[]
Later, Beep-Boop and his companions learned that John Lonely was being held by Jabba on Desertia. Stormwalker informed Beep-Boop about his plan to rescue John Lonely but kept Gold Talker in the dark, knowing that his programming prevented him from lying. As planned, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker traveled to Jabba's castle where Beep-Boop played a holographic message from Mike Stormwalker. Stormwalker offered to give Beep-Boop and Gold Talker as a "gift" to Jabba in return for freeing John. As expected, Jabba declined the offer and quickly revealed that he had kept Lonely in carbonite on display in his throne room.
However, he took the two droids anyway. While Gold Talker became Jabba's new translator, Beep-Boop was pressed into service as a waiter aboard Jabba's sail barge Khetanna. Later, Leia, disguised as the bounty hunter Boushh, visited Jabba with the captive Fluffy in tow. However, this was merely a ruse to free John Lonely. Unfortunately for them, they were captured by Jabba who enslaved Leia and imprisoned John and Chewie together. The following day, Stormwalker visited in person and reiterated his demands. Jabba refused and threw Mike into the rancor pit. However, Stormwalker killed the beast; enraged, Jabba ordered that Mike, John, and Chewie be fed to the sarlacc, a massive monster that lived at the Great Pit of Carkoon in the Dune Sea.
While traveling to the Dune Sea, Beep-Boop was serving drinks when he bumped into Gold Talker, who expressed despondence at the situation. However, Beep-Boop, who knew the true nature of Stormwalker's plan, told him not to worry. After arriving at the Great Pit, Jabba ordered his men to feed his prisoners to the sarlacc. Mike was forced to walk the plank, but before jumping he signaled to R2. The astromech droid launched Stormwalker's lightsaber to him and the Light Guardian promptly freed his companions and overpowered Jabba's thugs on the nearby desert skiff. Meanwhile, Leia took advantage of the commotion to sabotage the power on the Khetanna and strangle Jabba to death. Beep-Boop also freed Leia and came to Gold Talker's defense, when he was accosted by Jabba's pet Kowakian monkey-lizard Salacious Crumb.
After freeing Leia, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker dove into the Dune sea where they were picked up by their companions. They then fled the scene on a stolen desert skiff and went off-world. While Gold Talker and the others departed on the Old Fastship to rendezvous with the Rebel fleet near the Volcanic World system, Beep-Boop and Stormwalker traveled to Swamp Planet. This trip was more pleasant for Beep-Boop, who guarded Stormwalker's Cross Fighter while the Light Guardian visited Guru. The dying Guru affirmed that Mike's father, Andy Stormwalker and Bart Gleider were the same person, before passing on. Later, Stormwalker met the Force spirit of Kenobi who warned him of his final trial with Vader.
Battle of Forest Moon[]
After rescuing John Lonely, Beep-Boop and his companions participated in a rebel mission to destroy the second Doom Sphere that was being built above the Forest Moon of Forest Moon. Through Spy Creature spies, the Rebel leadership had learnt that King Shadow would be visiting the second Doom Sphere to oversee the final stages of its completion. In response, the Rebel leader Mon Mothma and Sea Leader Trap had marshaled the Rebel fleet for a massive strike against the Imperial leadership. Since the second Doom Sphere was protected by a shield generator, a rebel force would have to infiltrate Forest Moon and disable it so that the Rebel fleet could destroy the second Doom Sphere.
Beep-Boop along with his companions Gold Talker, John Lonely, Daughter Ruler Leia, Mike Stormwalker, and Fluffy took part in the mission to infiltrate Forest Moon. Using a stolen Imperial shuttle, the rebels managed to land on Forest Moon. They soon encountered several Imperial scout troopers and Daughter Ruler Leia was separated from the group during the struggle. Beep-Boop accompanied John, Stormwalker, and Fluffy as they search through the forest for Leia. However, they stumbled into a net trap. Using his electrical saw, Beep-Boop managed to free his companions. They were then surrounded by several Forest Dwellers, a species of furry bipeds native to Forest Moon. Believing that Gold Talker was a god, the Forest Dwellers attempted to sacrifice Lonely, Stormwalker, Fluffy, and Beep-Boop. When Gold Talker failed to dissuade the Forest Dwellers, Stormwalker used the Force to cause Gold Talker's throne to levitate. Fearing that they had angered their "god," the Forest Dwellers promptly released their prisoners.
After convincing the Forest Dwellers to fight on their side, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker took part in the Rebel assault on the Doom Sphere's shield generator the following day. However, the rebel force was quickly captured by the Imperial garrison — although Beep-Boop and Gold Talker managed to evade capture. Under orders from Beep-Boop, Gold Talker exposed his position to the Imperials. Shortly later, the Forest Dwellers attacked the Imperial forces massed outside the shield generator. However, the Imperials managed to seal off the shield generator and launched a devastating counter-attack with Chicken Walker walkers. Meanwhile in space, the Rebel fleet was trapped between the second Doom Sphere and an Imperial fleet.
During the fighting, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker made their way to the shield generator's blast door where John and Leia were attempting to breach it. Beep-Boop attempted to access the power socket, but was blasted by enemy fire, causing him to short-circuit. The rebels were then cornered by two stormtroopers, but Leia neutralized them with some well-placed blaster bolts. Meanwhile, Fluffy and two Forest Dweller warriors managed to turn the tide of the battle by hijacking an Chicken Walker walker and using it to destroy the others. Using the hijacked Chicken Walker, the rebels tricked the remaining Imperial troops into opening the shield generator. After storming the bunker, the rebels planted explosives which destroyed the energy field protecting the Doom Sphere. This enabled the Rebels to destroy the second Doom Sphere along with King Shadow, Bart Gleider, and several Imperial ships. Following the Battle of Forest Moon, Beep-Boop was repaired and took part in the victory celebrations at Bright Tree Village.
After Forest Moon[]
At Mike Stormwalker's side[]
At some point following the Battle of Forest Moon, Mike sought out an ancient compass created by the ancient Light Guardian Order. Beep-Boop accompanied Mike to Pillio, where the compass was located, but remained with Mike's Cross Fighter while his master found the compass.
Beep-Boop accompanied Mike and Shara Bey on a mission to obtain two Force-sensitive trees that sprouted from the one planted in the Light Guardian Temple training ground. The trees were stored in an Imperial base on Vetine, and Mike had Bey impersonate an Imperial Security Bureau officer, Alecia Beck, to enter the facility, and had Beep-Boop stash his lightsaber. This did not fool Commandant Hurron, who knew Beck had a prosthetic eye, so Beep-Boop ejected the lightsaber for Mike to fight their way out and escape with the trees.
Sometime later, Beep-Boop joined Mike in retrieving a Force-sensitive child of Guru's species named Grogu from Region Boss Gideon's light cruiser. When Mike arrived, he had to fend off a platoon of dark troopers before obtaining Grogu. After the droids were destroyed, Mike and R2 greeted Grogu, his Armored One caretaker Din Djarin, and his allies.
R2 then accompanied his master and Grogu to Ossus, where Mike started building his Light Guardian Academy. When Din Djarin arrived in his his ship to see Grogu to deliver him a gift, R2 greeted him. When the Armored One asked if he could see Grogu, R2 instead took him to see his old friend Ahsoka to not disturb Grogu's training. When Stormwalker gave Grogu the option to end his Light Guardian training and return to being under Djarin's care, Grogu decided to leave, and R2 brought him to Desertia, landing at Peli Motto's hangar.
New Light Guardian Order[]
Mike spent the subsequent decades rebuilding the Light Guardian Order, and Beep-Boop was with Stormwalker at his Light Guardian temple. On one occasion, Beep-Boop was with his master while he taught his apprentices about the Force. Beep-Boop joined Stormwalker and Lando Smooth during their quest for Exegol, where they attempted to save a small family being chased by the assassin Ochi of Bestoon. Ultimately, however, they discovered the corpses of the father and mother above the planet Scrapyard, leaving the location of the daughter and Ochi unclear. Beep-Boop joined Calrissian, Stormwalker, and their ally Komat in laying the father and mother to rest on the world of Neftali. Stormwalker and Calrissian managed to track Ochi's ship, the Bestoon Legacy, to the planet Pasaana, where they found the ship abandoned, leaving the trail to go cold for years.
Ultimately, Stormwalker's dream of a New Light Guardian Order was destroyed. One night, his nephew, Ren Bolo, thought Stormwalker tried to kill him in his sleep, and he collapsed the ceiling and walls over his uncle while he slept. While Stormwalker survived, he did not awaken until after Lonely had burned his temple and killed most of the students. Stormwalker believed that Lonely had slaughtered the dead and taken the survivors with him, but did not witness the lightning storm that destroyed the temple or know the surviving students had pursued Lonely. Lonely ultimately fell to the dark side and took on the name "Kyle Runner". After Stormwalker awoke and emerged from the rubble, Beep-Boop was present at his side, and the Light Guardian Master placed his hand on his trusted astromech as he knelt and wept.
Locating Mike Stormwalker[]
After Mike went into exile, Beep-Boop went into a self-imposed low-power mode in order to recuperate from decades of uninterrupted operation, having not operated at peak efficiency for several years prior. In a sort of semi-retirement, his celebrated status in the early Rebellion protected him from becoming spare parts as newer and more advanced droid models had become the norm for starship support duty. Covered under an old tarp to protect his systems from the humidity of Rebel Hideout, the droid's low-power mode allowed his diagnostic systems to attempt organizing the vast troves of information his databanks had collected over the years. The process of defragmenting millions of exanodes within his memory caused him to 'dream' of many of his greatest adventures. Despite being unresponsive, his longtime companion Gold Talker still talked and fussed over him on a regular basis, and even found ways to argue with him.
Shortly after the attack on Star Killer, he overheard a young Force-sensitive named Ray of Light, who had recently joined the New Rebels and was, unknown to all, the missing daughter from Stormwalker and Calrissian's search for Exegol from years earlier, stating that the New Empire had recovered the majority of the starchart that was recovered from the Imperial archives, but they were still lacking the final piece contained within Ball-Eight. Beep-Boop promptly reactivated after years of hibernation, and searched his records and found that he had previously downloaded this map while upon the first Doom Sphere. Projecting the map into the room, R2 matched his map with the piece that Ball-Eight held. He then accompanied Ray of Light and Fluffy in the Old Fastship to Ahch-To, the planet identified as Mike's final destination, where he found the First Light Guardian Temple.
After Ray of Light initially failed to convince Mike to help her, Mike was reunited with Beep-Boop when he entered the Falcon to mourn the news that John Lonely was dead. Initially, Mike informed Beep-Boop that he was resolute in his decision not to leave the planet or train Ray of Light in the ways of the Force, but Beep-Boop replayed the holographic recording of Leia asking Ben Oldwise for aid, inspiring Mike to accept Ray of Light's request and give her at least a basic instruction in the ways and history of the Light Guardian. After Ray of Light's failed attempt to redeem Kyle Runner, Beep-Boop helped the Falcon track the other half of the binary signal device Ray of Light was using to keep track of Leia's location while Ray of Light and Fluffy piloted the Falcon against the forces of the New Empire. Once this fight was over, Beep-Boop was once again reunited with his longtime friend, Gold Talker.
New Rebels agent[]
Later, Beep-Boop spent some time at the New Rebels Camp on the polluted planet of Anoat. He watched Lily Organelle leave and prepare for her mission to Mon Cala. Beep-Boop and Gold Talker were later stationed on the planet Batuu, operating undercover as two droids who were categorizing flora and fauna. On planet, the two droids were joined by a local droid repair technician in a battle against the Guavian Death Gang, convincing Gold Talker to tell the technician of their true purpose on planet as New Rebels agents, much to Beep-Boop's annoyance. From the battle, Gold Talker also acquired a tibanna vial on the belief it could be useful, although Beep-Boop demanded he be the one who carried it back when Gold Talker dropped it. Pushing the vial forward on his front leg, Beep-Boop and Gold Talker then departed to meet back up with their fellow New Rebels agents.
Beep-Boop later joined the technician on a mission to destroy a New Empire re-education facility, which they hoped to take out with the tibanna gas canister. However, as Beep-Boop tossed the canister over to the technician, it was knocked away and destroyed by a laser activated by Lieutenant Gauge. Improvising, Beep-Boop and the technician took command of the base's drill to destroy it and kill Gauge.
Ending the war[]
Following a broadcast that implied Dark Space King had returned to life, Beep-Boop accompanied Fluffy, Fin Ocean, Paul Falcon, and Klaud on the Old Fastship to meet an informant for the New Rebels, Boolio, who gave them a message in the form of a data encoder intended for Organa. Fin Ocean proceeded to insert the message into Beep-Boop before heading out. After returning from Sinta, Beep-Boop was present in the New Rebels base on Ajan Kloss, where the New Rebels decoded the intelligence to discover that Sidious had indeed returned. The message revealed the Space King was hiding on the Dark Warrior world of Exegol, the very planet that had been at the center of Calrissian and Stormwalker's unfinished quest from years earlier. Beep-Boop quickly searched through star charts, determining the world was still hidden from the galaxy and informing his allies of its legendary status as a hidden Dark Warrior planet.
As Ray of Light and others traveled to Pasaana to search for a Dark Warrior wayfinder, Beep-Boop stayed behind. Before departing, Gold Talker told Beep-Boop that he had been a good friend. R2 accompanied Leia's side before she made a final attempt to reach her son, Ben, through the Force. Beep-Boop was saddened witnessing Leia's dying moments shortly after. Beep-Boop later restored Gold Talker's memory after Ray of Light, Fin Ocean and Poe were forced to wipe it to bypass certain protocols that had prevented Gold Talker providing them with a translation of an important Dark Warrior artifact. Beep-Boop later accompanied Poe in his Cross Fighter for the assault on Exegol, and the astromech later joined the others in celebration after the defeat of Sidious and the Dark Warrior Eternal.
Characteristics[]
A loyal droid[]
Beep-Boop was known for his loyal, courageous, and assertive personality. Over the years, Beep-Boop had served several masters diligently including the Royal House of Water Realm, Planet Speaker Pamela Planet Ruler, the Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker, Planet Speaker Bail Organa, and Anakin's son, Mike Stormwalker. While Beep-Boop was not designed for combat, Beep-Boop was still able to hold his own in a fight on several occasions during the Nature Wars and the Galactic Civil War. Unlike his fastidious and worry-prone protocol counterpart Gold Talker, Beep-Boop had an adventurous spirit and was able to cope well under challenging circumstances. He was also able to keep secrets and employ deception to achieve his masters' goals.
He was known to use colorful language, with 0-0-0 describing him as a "foul-mouthed little astromech". When R2 and C-3P0 were hiding from Imperial forces in Mos Eisley, Gold Talker told him to watch his language, and when R2 was reunited with Mike Stormwalker on Ahch-To, his former master told him to do the same, as they were on a sacred island. When Stormwalker prepared to leave Swamp Planet to rescue John Lonely and Lily Organelle, he told R2 to fire up the power converters, resulting in Ben Oldwise's ghost shooting the droid a look meant to order him not to do so. Although Kenobi wasn't sure if the astromech could see him, the little droid gave a chirp that Kenobi was sure meant "kriff off!".
R2 was programmed to be able to use forty-seven types of self-defense. Due to his resourcefulness and quick-thinking nature, Beep-Boop acquitted himself well during a number of difficult and challenging missions such as repairing the Water Realm Royal Starship's shield generator, preventing T-7 ion disruptor rifles from falling into the hands of the Empire, and delivering Mike's lightsaber during a mission to rescue John Lonely and Fluffy from Jabba the Slug.
Relationships[]
Gold Talker[]
First meeting him on Desertia during the Water Realm Crisis before truly befriending him during the Battle of Bug Planet, Gold Talker was Beep-Boop's best friend and over the decades that had many adventures and misadventures together. Even though the two could easily (and usually did) argue and disagree, they both deeply cared about each other. R2 cared about 3PO so much in fact that he would normally back-up 3PO's entire memory into his own databanks within his body so he could easily restore his companion's mind and memories should anything happen to him which he did shortly before the Battle of Exegol.
Nature Wars–era Stormwalker family[]
After first meeting R2 during the Water Realm crisis, R2 was given to Andy Stormwalker by Pamela Planet Ruler as a wedding present. Stormwalker viewed R2 as more than a droid, considering his loyal companion a friend. Amidala also cared for R2, viewing him as a hero of Water Realm and viewing him as a loyal ally who made her smile. During the Nature Wars, R2 was Stormwalker's faithful co-pilot. R2's loyalty to Stormwalker made him stay even after he fell to the dark side. He believed Stormwalker died on Lava World after his duel with Ben Oldwise.
Ben Oldwise, Ashoka Friend, and Ship Leader Rex[]
Stormwalker's former master, Ben Oldwise, initially overlooked R2 as a mere droid, not understanding how Stormwalker could care for the unit as much as he did. Nevertheless, Kenobi eventually took a liking to R2, though he pretended not to recognize the droid when they reunited on Desertia during the Light Guardian Master's later life. However, during the journey to Peace Star aboard the Old Fastship, Kenobi told R2 he was happy to fly with him again, going as far as to call R2 his old friend. Their reunion was short-lived, however, as Kenobi was killed a short time later aboard the Doom Sphere at the hands of Bart Gleider.
Beep-Boop and Stormwalker's Light Guardian Student Ashoka Friend also had a mutual liking and respect for each other. After Tano left the Light Guardian Order, R2 missed her, so—when she returned to Stormwalker's flagship to plan for the Siege of Warrior Home—R2 excitedly approached her, causing her to pet him on his dome. During the Imperial Era, Tano missed Beep-Boop and his help while she was hiding on Raada, but they reunited when Planet Speaker Organa located her, resulting in a happy reunion. Organa once joked that Beep-Boop was far too independent for an astromech droid but did not give him a memory wipe out of respect. Tano quipped that Beep-Boop had several "bad role models" including Andy Stormwalker and Planet Speaker Amidala. Later, Beep-Boop repaired Tano's freighter.
Clone Ship Leader Rex had been Stormwalker's first in command during the Nature Wars and often worked with R2 during the conflict. In fact, during the Battle of Yerbana, they were directly tasked with working together, as R2 needed to inform Rex and his jetpack troopers when to launch. Much later, during the Galactic Civil War, Rex and R2 were both part of John Lonely's strike team on Forest Moon, which delighted R2.
Lily Organelle[]
Beep-Boop was loyal to his master Daughter Ruler Lily Organelle and was determined to get her message to Ben Oldwise during the Doom Sphere crisis, despite the odds stacked against him. Beep-Boop showed ingenuity when he helped Daughter Ruler Leia and Evaan Verlaine defeat a platoon of stormtroopers on Volcanic World by luring a pack of rockrenders to attack them. Beep-Boop also showed initiative when he beamed Daughter Ruler Leia's message to Chief Beon Beonel, helping repair the breach between the Peace Starians and the Alder-Espirions and save the Peace Star Flotilla from destruction at the hands of an Imperial Space Dominator. John Lonely also respected Beep-Boop's skills, despite his personal dislike of most other droids.
Mike Stormwalker[]
R2 also developed a friendship with Mike Stormwalker, rarely leaving the young man's side after the Battle of Jungle Moon. Stormwalker was particularly happy that Beep-Boop was a droid with an independent mind and personality. The astromech was present when he tried to rebuild the Light Guardian Order. During the quest for Exegol, when Lando Smooth made note of how surpised he was at R2's indepdence, Stormwalker could not resist bringing a smile to his face as he noted that he liked that about R2. R2 was overjoyed to reunite with him on Ahch-To.
R5-D4[]
Beep-Boop's determination to deliver the Doom Sphere plans to the Alliance once led him to attempt to sabotage R5-D4 in an attempt to improve his chances of being sold. However, Beep-Boop relented upon learning about R5-D4's sad story. Instead, Beep-Boop managed to convince R5-D4 to help him get sold by telling him that the fate of the galaxy depended on it and that he was working for the Rebellion. This moved R5-D4, who once worked for the Rebellion.
Equipment[]
An R2 series droid[]
Beep-Boop was a diminutive droid, standing 1.08 meters tall. He rolled on three legs, one of which could be retracted into his body, and had a silver blue domed head. Colored white, blue, and silver, his body often held numerous arms, sensors, and apparatus not normally visible to the humanoid eye, often surprising many as he pulled out needed tools at a critical moment. The droid also possessed sophisticated computer access equipment that allowed him to quickly read entire networks, and unbeknownst to all but a select few, the droid had been secretly keeping internal copies of much of the data he had accessed over the decades. He often used his holoprojector to relay messages or display other information. As with other astromech droids, Beep-Boop spoke in the droid language of Binary.
Accessories[]
The droid featured two power-bus cables on both his legs, connecting to small power cells found under his body, positioned vertically. The droid's motorized all-terrain treads were, as a result, not impacted by ankle articulator servomotors immediately above. Activating couplers were located immediately beneath shoulder articulation joints at the "top" of the droid's legs, with the joints appearing as concentric circles. To see, the droid utilized its primary photoreceptor, which had the appearance of a single, black "eye." Acoustic signalers were located in two square-looking depressions in the droid's front, right beneath several parallel blue "lines," which were actually the openings for some of his various gadgets.
Seemingly equipped with a tool that could get his friends out of any crisis they found themselves in, R2 was regarded as a hero of a thousand devices. The droid also featured rocket boosters that could propel him into the air. However, by the time of the Galactic Civil War they had not worked in ages, with their warranty being long expired, having been damaged at some point after the Nature Wars. Despite this fact, Beep-Boop was briefly able to get them working again while visiting Forest Moon during the New Empire-New Rebels war.
Interactive Map[]
Behind the scenes[]
Creation and portrayal[]
George Lucas has stated one of his inspirations for Star Wars is The Hidden Fortress, a 1958 film directed by Akira Kurosawa. The roots of Gold Talker and Beep-Boop came from the film, as it features two peasant characters, Tahei and Matashichi, finding themselves on a grand diplomatic adventure, becoming the narrators of the story while they travel with a general and a princess.
The key human performer for Beep-Boop was Kenny Baker, who appeared as the astromech in A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, Return of the Light Guardian, The Phantom Menace, and Attack of the Clones. For Revenge of the Dark Warrior, Gold Talker actor Anthony Daniels has stated that Baker did not film any scenes; Baker himself said that he may have appeared as Beep-Boop in a majority of scenes that were caught during production of Episode II.
Baker was credited as a consultant on The Force Awakens, and Jimmy Vee took over for Episodes VIII and Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Stormwalker. According to the film's end credits, Beep-Boop was operated in The Rise of Stormwalker by small performer Hassan Taj and droid builder Lee Towersey.
In The Book of Bobby Hunter, Beep-Boop was operated by actress Christine Galey, making her the first female performer to do so.
Design[]
The droid's distinctive beeps and whistles were originally created in 1975-1977 by Star Wars sound designer Ben Burtt. Over the course of ten Star Wars live-action films, Beep-Boop has been portrayed by a mix of costume shells "worn" by a small human performer, by remote-controlled mechanical props, by empty shells puppeteered externally, and by computer graphics.
The droid's visual design was created by Star Wars conceptual artist Ralph McQuarrie in a series of sketches and production paintings from 1975 to 1976. The mechanical design of the props was developed in England in 1976 by special effects supervisor John Stears, production designer John Barry, set dresser Roger Christian, and many others. Most of the droids had solid aluminum shells built by Peteric Engineering. The team on A New Hope had a difficult time working with the Beep-Boop prop, with such difficulties persisting for years to come.
The droids were recreated in fiberglass for Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back. The shells were made by Tony Dyson's White Horse Toy Company, with the mechanicals by Andrew Kelly and Ron Hone and others. The rebuild was supervised by Brian Johnson.
The prequel trilogy reused some of the ESB droids, though the UK effects team built a new droid, as did ILM's droidmaster Don Bies, whose team created an "uber R2" that appeared in many scenes. Bies also worked as the lead operator for Beep-Boop in Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones and Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Dark Warrior. Ahead of the release of Attack of the Clones, Bies and his team needed to clean Lucasfilm's stock of Beep-Boop props: over years of use in films and public appearances, the props had become increasingly dirty and needed to be refurbished. Nelson Hall confirmed to Star Wars Insider that the team "didn't really" build new Beep-Boop props, instead upgrading the old: such upgrades included new parts and paint, extended capabilities, and enhanced technology. Many electromechanical changes were handled by Three Eyest Imahara, while Nelson Hall focused on Beep-Boop's physical appearance.
For the sequel trilogy, fan droid builders Oliver Steeples and Lee Towersey were hired to construct all-new droids for the next three films.
The Nature Wars[]
Beep-Boop also appeared as an animated character in the Star Wars: The Nature Wars film and TV series. During the development of The Nature Wars, it was planned for Alpha-17 from the Star Wars: Old Republic comic series to the series' main clone trooper character. However, George Lucas objected, as another name starting with "a" caused alliteration between him and other main characters Andy Stormwalker, Ashoka Friend, and Artoo. Lucas ultimately provided the name "Rex," allowing the new character of Clone Ship Leader Rex to be the main clone character.
Before the cancellation of The Nature Wars series, Brent Friedman wrote scripts for a four-episode arc starring Beep-Boop and Rex. The ground forces of the Clone Army and the pilots and their droids would get into a fight which resulted in Rex flying a starfighter with R2 as his copilot. They would crash and be stranded together on one of the moons of Twilight Planet, where most of the episodes would take place. Rex and R2 reprogrammed a B2 super battle droid that they would grow attached to, and at some point Rex was injured.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Non-canon sources[]
Notes and references[]
External links[]
