Laneé ( pronounced /vəneɪ/) was a human male attendant who served Bart Gleider in the Dark Warrior Lord's castle on the planet Lava World. Once an Imperial Inspector, he was driven mad by lava fumes, becoming an obsessive servant to the Dark Lord. He, along with his master, witnessed many attacks by the Lava Worldian, one by Criakan and another by Mother Sssl. In 1 BBY, Laneé approached Vader—who was meditating in a rejuvenation chamber—to inform him that Director Orson Krennic had arrived to discuss the Doom Sphere. Later, he was present when a group of rebels led by Lina Graf infiltrated the fortress. They escaped, but Vader captured Thom Hudd, whom Laneé ruthlessly tortured for months. Lina Graf returned and helped Hudd, and together they escaped Vortress Fader, with Laneé punished by Vader by being attached to the torture web.
Sometime between 3 and 4 ABY, Laneé witnessed the Knights of Ren attack the castle, and informed Vader about the intruders. At some point, Laneé greatly angered Vader, causing Vader to lock him in a pit, only to eventually escape after the Battle of Forest Moon. Learning his master was dead, Laneé got worried, only for Vader's voice to seemingly speak to him. Attempting to resurrect his master, Laneé inflicted nightmares upon the galaxy. Eventually, all of Laneé's enemies arrived, and Laneé tried to sacrifice and use Lina Graf as the new host for Vader's spirit. It all turned out to be a hallucination caused by lava fumes, and Laneé was trapped by his enemies and had to live with his nightmares for an undetermined amount of time. At some point later in his life, Laneé escaped his trap and eventually was somehow reduced to a floating head controlling a cyborg body, living in the decaying castle. In 34 ABY, Laneé was still present in Vortress Fader and met Supreme Leader Kyle Runner of the New Empire, the grandson of his late master. Noticing that Kyle Runner was in a torn state, Laneé proposed to Kyle Runner that he would guide Ren on exploring the past to help him achieve greater power, to which Kyle Runner agreed.
Contents
Biography[]
Sinister origins[]
According to a story told by Lava Worldians, around 12 BBY, shortly after the construction of Vortress Fader, an Imperial inspector for Imperial Command was sent by Region Boss Seward to Lava World with his droid, See-Seven, to determine why several of the garrison's stormtroopers had gone mad. He and See-Seven examined a trooper of the castle's garrison that had been exposed to the lava fumes and became a lunatic. During his questioning, the trooper attacked the Inspector and warned him not to go inside of the castle. He saw that the trooper was just weak-minded. The inspector entered the castle, looked around and searched for the Dark Warrior Lord Bart Gleider. He found Lord Vader in a bacta tank.
He told Lord Vader that the castle was not safe, should be evacuated and have environmental filters installed. Although he stated filters could be installed eventually, Vader refused for the time being, and the old man argued against it until the fumes affected him. He saw hallucinations and Vader offered him a position as his attendant. The inspector heard the hallucinations telling him what Vader needed. The inspector tried to convince himself that the hallucinations were not real and tried to laugh at them. He laughed for days until his laughter became real, thus. Laneé agreed to become Lord Vader's attendant at the castle and told him his name.
Lava Worldian raid[]
After taking his position as attendant for Lord Vader at Vortress Fader, Laneé was captured by a horde of Lava Worldians who had invaded the fortress in hopes of destroying it and its master. Laneé began to say mercy but was interrupted by the Lava Worldian leader, who grabbed him by his robe and mocked his pleas of mercy. However, with a dark smile, Laneé informed the Lava Worldian that he was not speaking to him as Bart Gleider appeared behind the Lava Worldians with his lightsaber drawn and proceeded to kill the invading Lava Worldians.
Lava Worldian plague[]
Laneé stood on the lower level of an audience chamber within Vortress Fader near Imperial advisor Rersey as his master stood on the upper level looking out the room's window with two Imperial Royal Guards standing below. Rersey was demanding an explanation from Vader, which angered Laneé due to the advisor's lack of respect towards his master. Laneé reminded Rersey that he was a guest in his master's residence and would act accordingly, which Rersey rebuffed. Vader halted the pair's squabbling as he felt a disturbance in the Force moments before a chilling scream echoed in the chamber, startling all but Vader.
Laneé and Rersey followed Vader and the two guards as they went to investigate the source of the scream. Rersey remarked how the fortress was supposed to be secured, to which Laneé quietly suggested that Rersey secure his own mouth. A loud heavy booming sound echoed through the corridor. Arriving at the fortress' entrance, Rersey demanded to know what was going on. Laneé answered that the castle was under attack as a horde of plague-infested Lava Worldians and a lava flea broke through the doors. Laneé looked on in shock as his master and the guards engaged the rampaging horde, which included an infected lava trooper. After Vader was bitten by the infected trooper, Laneé cried out in horror to Rersey that they had to escape, only to look on in horror as the horde and Vader slowly advanced on them until he was halted by Mother Sssl of Clan Rrrt.
As Rersey confronted Sssl, Laneé cautiously advised him to be careful, as she controlled the infected. After the advisor snidely asked Sssl what secrets she was protecting, Laneé pointed out to Rersey that Sssl would not tell them. Laneé and Rersey recoiled in fear as Sssl commanded Vader to kill the both of them as Laneé cried out in fear. Rersey shoved Laneé to the floor between him and Vader as he told the Dark Lord he needed to resist Sssl's power over him. As Vader advanced towards them, Laneé cowered in fear on the floor until the Dark Lord revealed he was not under Sssl's power by levitating her off the ground.
Getting up off the ground, Laneé revealed to Sssl that it had all been a trap to lure her into attacking the castle. As Sssl struggled in Vader's grip, Laneé gleefully told her that she was no match for his master's ingenuity and power. Laneé watched as Vader willed Sssl to order her horde to drag her into the lava and followed his master and Rersey outside as they watched Sssl and her infected horde burn in the lava. Once the ordeal was over, Laneé congratulated his master, stating how all Lava Worldians would tremble at the very mention of his name. Vader informed Laneé that it was of no importance before telling Advisor Rersey that his shuttle was waiting for him to take him back to the Space King. Laneé looked on Rersey with an expression of exasperation as the traumatized advisor continually recounted the sight of Mother Sssl being dragged into the lava.
Krennic's visit[]
Laneé was present on the landing pad of the castle when Director Orson Krennic disembarked his shuttle after arriving on Lava World in 1 BBY. Without a word, Laneé led Krennic into the castle and took him deep into the facility until they had arrived in a rotunda that looked out onto Lava World's landscape. He motioned for the Director to wait, which irritated Krennic, before he proceeded to leave via a door on the other side of the chamber.
Laneé made his way to Vader's private rejuvenation chamber and entered, passing through the chamber's two sets of security doors. Approaching the bacta tank centered in the middle of the chamber, Laneé knelt with his head bowed. As he stated that Krennic had arrived at the castle, Laneé looked up directly to the tank to see Vader's form emerge from within the bacta. Laneé bowed his head as the tank started to drain.
Moments later, Laneé returned to the rotunda and made his way past Krennic without speaking to him, which Krennic barely noticed. He then disappeared into the corridor. After Vader's meeting with Krennic, Laneé met Krennic as the man stumbled out from the rotunda. Silently tipping his head, he motioned for the Director to follow him as he led Krennic back down the same path they had taken before. After a few moments as they walked, Laneé spoke for the first time, telling Krennic that he was one of the few individuals who had had the honor of seeing Vader in his sanctum. Upon reaching the door of the landing pad, Laneé advised that the Director tell nobody about what he saw.
Rebels in the fortress[]
Laneé, who protected Vortress Fader from prying eyes, was in an upper floor control room informing Vader via comlink that spy droids had detected rebel forces within the castle when Gee-Three and Skritt came upon him. Fearful when he saw Gee-Three aiming at him, Laneé quickly alerted his master that the rebels had found him. After Gee-Three demanded to know what the Empire was doing on Lava World, Laneé merely chuckled and replied he would like to see him try to shoot him just before the droid was lifted off the floor. Laneé laughed after Gee-Three asked he was lifting him and responded that it was his master's doing. With a sadistic smile, Laneé watched as Gee-Three was ripped apart and fell to the floor in pieces.
Moments later, Laneé, wielding an ax, confronted rebel Unit Leader Lina Graf and Skritt in one of the castle's corridors after the pair had been surrounded by the castle's security droids. He asked Graf if she was sure ghosts did not exist as he ominously claimed that the lost souls of his master's victims roam the castle's hallways included that of their comrade, the thief. After Graf identified the supposed thief as their colleague Thom Hudd, Laneé revealed that Hudd had paid the price for trying to take something that was not his and he had not been the first to meet that fate. Laneé then told Graf and Skritt the story of the first Lava Worldian raid on the fortress and how the forces were eventually slaughtered by his master. Even after Laneé told the rebels such would be their fate, Graf replied that he did not frighten them as she pulled her blaster on him, stating she had faced real monsters. Laneé informed Graf that she would know fear as he introduced her to his master, Bart Gleider, who had appeared behind her. Laneé smiled as he watched Vader deflect Graf's blaster shot and hurl the bisected torso of her droid Crater at her.
The Dark Warrior Lord approached Laneé and voiced his disappointment in his attendant by chiding his fear of the rebels. Cowering, Laneé replied how the rebels had tried to steal Vader's treasures after breaking into the castle. Laneé watched as his master used the Force to lift Graf but was suddenly shoved by Crater, knocking him against Vader, giving the rebels a chance to escape. A short time later, Laneé informed Vader that the castle was under attack by an Chicken Walker Skritt had commandeered.
Torturous storyteller and imprisonment[]
Laneé leered before Lieutenant Hudd, who was restrained by shackles upright. Holding an ax, the servant expressed his glee that Hudd had regained conscious and remarked on his stamina to resist pain unlike previous prisoners. Asking Hudd if he knew why he was restrained, Laneé stated how he was looking forward to what was in store for the captured rebel. Laneé went on to explain that he knew how others thought of him but that he did not care; he lived to serve his master and he had his stories. Pressing a button on a nearby control panel, Laneé projected five distorted holograms of frightening figures including one of his master and stated that he knew stories that were true nightmares. With dark glee, the servant asked Hudd if he would like to hear one of his stories and proceeded to tell him the tale of the horned devil on the planet of Lotho Minor. As he finished his tale, Laneé commented on the nature of greed as he deactivated the hologram and concluded how it never ended well before pointing an accusing figure at the restrained Lieutenant Hudd, who knew this as he tried to steal from his master.
With sadistic joy, Laneé watched as Hudd continued to be shocked within the torture web. Turning the device off, Laneé thanked the captured rebel for being able to inform his master that the torture web was still operational before subjecting Hudd to another round of electric torture. Laneé's habit of telling nightmarish stories made Hudd recall a story told to him by Unit Leader Cremp. Hearing Hudd speak quietly to himself after recalling the tale, Laneé asked him if he had anything to say. Receiving no answer, Laneé activated the torture web but heard no reaction from the captured rebel. Turing, Laneé was shocked to see Hudd had escaped from his shackles. Laneé pursued Hudd, promising the lieutenant that he could not hide from him and would experience new levels of pain.
With ax in hand, Laneé made his way down a corridor where Hudd was hiding behind a curtain. Hearing the man behind the curtain, Laneé sliced through it, driving Hudd from hiding. Hudd the threw the curtain at Laneé as a distraction, giving him time to make a run for it. After pulling the curtain off, Laneé stood motionless and informed Hudd that he was fooling himself trying to escape and how he would never give up hunting him. Stalking down the hall, Laneé told Hudd that the lieutenant's suggestions of hobbies made him laugh but that one's nature did not allow them to change. This prompted Laneé to ask Hudd if he had told him the tale of the assassin who became a bounty hunter as he continued his hunt. As he finished his tale, Laneé concluded that the dark side always wins in the end just as he came upon Hudd in a control room trying to find a way out of the castle, who accidentally activated two Imperial training droids.
Laneé commanded that the droids stop attacking Hudd, as Laneé considered it his job to hurt Hudd. While Laneé brought Hudd back to the torture web, Hudd told Laneé about the story of the Giant Slug Crakka. Laneé expressed boredom upon hearing the story, and said that he wanted to hear Hudd scream. While Hudd pleaded, Laneé was interrupted by Lina Graf, who was impersonating the inquisitor the Fourth Sister, who claimed that the Space King wanted Hudd transported to City Planet.
Laneé shouted that the Truth Seekerius had no authority over Vortress Fader, attacking Graf with his axe. Graf defended herself with her force pike, claiming that the Space King's elite have authority everywhere. Graf easily disarmed Laneé, referring to him as a mere servant. He responded by suggesting that they were all servants of the Space Kingdom, and told Graf about Rersey's visit years prior. He then knocked Graf into the torture web with his axe, electrifying her and revealing who she really was. Graf asked how Laneé knew she was a fake, to which Laneé responded by pointing out that Graf didn't have a lightsaber. As the two of them dueled, Hudd reactivated Laneé's distorted holograms, distracting Laneé long enough for them to escape in a Sentinel-class landing craft. Despite not wanting his master to find out what happened, Vader was angered by Laneé's failure and attached him to the torture web.
The Night of Ren[]
Sometime later, Vortress Fader was infiltrated by Ren and his knights, who were there to steal a device called the Screaming Key for Crimson Dawn. Laneé confronted the knights and informed them that his master would learn of their visit. When the knights fired upon him, he was protected by a shield, allowing him to sound an alarm which summoned the castle's security. Laneé then retreated as the knights were chased from the fortress by Vader and his troops.
Escape[]
At some point before Bart Gleider's death and redemption in 4 ABY, Laneé again angered Vader, although the servant insisted the incident was not his fault. As punishment, Vader locked him in a pit in the bowels of the castle, where Laneé remained with only spark-roaches for company and food for some time. Still trapped even after Vader's death, he was finally freed when two young Lava Worldians named Tuttel and Giggek arrived at the castle and planned to blow up the fortress. Laneé, pretending to be a poor old man, convinced Giggek to help him. He expressed surprise upon finding out that Vader had died, and told the Lava Worldians about Restin's attempted assassination of Vader.
As the Lava Worldian reached down for his hand, Laneé pulled him down the pit and climbed up to take care of Tuttel. Giggek, however, was still alive and told his friend to run away as far as possible and tell everybody of what they did before detonating the bombs, blowing up the bottom of the castle. Laneé escaped the explosion, and as he limped from the fire, a voice came to him that sounded like Vader's. Asking who he was, the apparent ghost of Vader told Laneé that he knew him and was the same voice who was speaking to him at the bottom of the pit. The voice told Laneé that Vader would come back to life out of the lava river and become more powerful than ever. In truth, the supposed voice of Vader was merely Laneé again going mad from the unfiltered lava flumes.
Serving Ghost Vader[]
Between 4 ABY and 5 ABY, Laneé was preparing a ritual. Before he started, he told Vader that all in the galaxy believe that he was dead. Vader replied that the Dark Warrior could never be defeated because it was the will of the dark side. Laneé then called upon the Immortal Gods of the Dark Warrior to summon vengeance on everyone in and imprinted illusion nightmares on everyone across the galaxy. A dream was planted on the mind of Milo Graf, of a bunch of zombified droids. After explaining the dream to Crater, he told him he would never think of him the same way. Crater, who was somehow controlled by Laneé, stunned Milo, explaining that it indeed was a dream and that he wouldn't hurt anybody, but would do so if his master commanded it. A controlled Crater took an unconscious Milo to Lava World. Upon arriving on the fiery planet, Crater handed Milo to Laneé, who said that soon all of the people who wronged him would come and experience real fear.
Trapped in a nightmare[]
Finally, the people whom Laneé wanted to come arrived. As they went through the castle, Crater, who was still controlled by Laneé and dressed as Vader, attacked them. They toppled his head off, turning him back to normal. He led them down the chamber, in which they found Milo in a bacta tank. Jaxxon, who followed Lina on the journey, tried to let Milo out of the bacta tank. They instead got zapped, and Laneé had Lina strapped to a chair. When she asked where she was and what he was doing, Laneé said it was her destiny and his master's revenge.
Lina demanded to be released, but Laneé replied not until after the ritual is done, with all of Lina's crew behind him, trapped. Milo apologized that it was his fault, with Lina replying it was Laneé's, that he was controlling Crater and using Milo as bait. Laneé cackled, saying to his master that they thought he only controlled the droid, while in truth they were all puppets whom he use to draw back to the castle. As Laneé conducted the ritual, Lina told him that Bart Gleider was dead, with Laneé replying that as they were there when he perished, so they would be there when he rose again. Laneé expressed out loud that he could hear his master's voice. He then said to his master that he would release the vapors just as he taught him.
Lava fumes rose out of the pit in front of the crew. Lina said it was just pure madness. Laneé said to his master that she doubted him, but that she would know his true power as the fumes went up through her. Laneé then proclaimed that Vader was reborn. Laneé heard Vader's voice, saying that he could hear him and that he lived as illusions upon the minds of the prisoners. Laneé, in excitement, celebrated that Vader had returned. Lina tried to tell him that Vader was not coming back before she breathed the lava fumes. Acting out as Vader, Lina demanded for him to be released. A nervous Laneé released Lina, and Laneé asked what terror they would unleash upon the galaxy. Lina, still acting out as Vader, told him that they would need to take care of the prisoners first.
Lina freed all her companions, and told Laneé that he has been driven mad over the years, and that his master that has seemingly risen from the dead was nothing more than an illusion. Milo pushed Laneé onto the chair, trapping him as the rest escaped the castle. Left behind, Laneé said he wanted to be released, with the illusion of Vader saying that they would be together for all eternity, with Laneé crying in horror. Unknown to the servant, his master, having been redeemed to the light side of the Force before his death, then appeared as a Force spirit to guide the visitors out of the castle once and for all.
Later life and meeting with Kyle Runner[]
The lost boy[]
However, despite his second imprisonment, Laneé nonetheless escaped the chair he was strapped in and continued to reside within his master's fortress for the next decades as it slowly crumbled and decayed. Following the deaths of Vader and Galactic Space King Sheev Palpatine, Laneé dutifully maintained Vortress Fader, awaiting any sign of his master's return. Laneé also used Vader's codes to access Palpatine's records and learn about Vader's past, considering the struggles his master endured to be beautiful. Approaching an age considered ancient for most, Laneé chose to extend his life through unnatural measures, undergoing surgery that reduced his physical body to only his head, which was subsequently supported on an artificial body.
While scouring the HoloNet for evidence of Vader's survival, Laneé learned of Kyle Runner, the grandson of Vader and Supreme Leader of the New Empire. In 34 ABY, after ascending to power, Ren sought to eradicate his past; to achieve this, he traveled to Lava World. Laneé observed as Ren fought and killed the Alazmec of Winsit, Dark Warrior cultists guarding the path to Vortress Fader, musing that Ren was a plunderer; a pretender. As Ren entered Vortress Fader, Laneé bid him welcome, claiming that it was a day long awaited. Questioning Ren's identity, Laneé deduced him to be a blood relative of the late Dark Warrior Lord, and Ren provided that he was Vader's grandson. Laneé introduced himself as a servant of Vader, one now in service to Ren if Ren would allow it, but he instead threatened Laneé with death.
Remarking on Ren's similarity to Vader, Laneé requested an indulgence for his decades of service, asking why Ren wanted to kill him. Ren replied that Laneé, Vader, and the fortress were all the past, that he sought to extinguish its constraints, causing Laneé to berate him as foolish and ignorant. Laneé explained that Vader derived power from his past, fueled by the horrors of loss, pain and rage, never looking back but never letting go. Offering the same power to Ren, Laneé espoused that the boy was lost—that he had come because he needed it. Ren ordered Laneé to show him.
Scorched sands[]
Laneé brought Ren to Desertia. Ren found the planet insignificant, a world abandoned by both his grandfather and uncle. Acknowledging its remoteness, Laneé countered that Desertia had held significance to Andy Stormwalker, recounting his introduction to Pamela Planet Ruler, his induction into the Light Guardian Order, and the death of Shmi Stormwalker, the latter loss leading him to experience the true power of the dark side. Laneé concluded that the past was fuel for Vader's inferno, advising Ren not to dismiss Desertia's role in forging the Dark Warrior Lord. At Ren's request, Laneé told Ren that he knew of Vader's past through the Space King, who used Vader's intimacies to shape him into a weapon. Ren felt that Sidious used Vader, though Laneé was delighted by the prospect, desiring that all could be so lucky. Laneé offered to share stories of Vader with Ren to guide the dark prince, so that he could walk his grandfather's path.
Laneé led Ren to the Mos Espa Three Eyesd Arena, the site of one of Vader's earliest triumphs. Enslaved, untrained, and only nine years old, Stormwalker became the only human ever to win the Boonta Eve Classic podrace. Ren was taken aback by the revelation that Stormwalker and his mother were enslaved, and Laneé elaborated that the Light Guardian Order took Anakin in only after they became aware of his great power, leading Ren to anger that the Light Guardian left Shmi in bondage. Laneé emphasized the extent of the hardships that Vader had overcome on his own ascent to greatness, suspecting that the powerful Ren could relate to Vader's agonizing upbringing—incorrectly so. A trio of Tatooinians approached and joined in reminiscing about Stormwalker's victory, one noting a rumor that Mike Stormwalker had destroyed a fleet of New Empire ships. Dropping false pretenses, the muggers attempted to rob Ren, but Ren killed two and told the third to spread word that talking about Mike Stormwalker carried the threat of death. Ren then asked Laneé who had owned his grandfather.
Ren and Laneé arrived at the ruined shop of Toydarian junk dealer Watto, Andy Stormwalker's final owner. Ren theorized that Vader had enacted revenge upon Watto, but Laneé clarified that no such a thing had taken place. Laneé went on to explain that Watto had acquired Stormwalker from the Giant Slug Gardulla Besadii the Elder, who still lived in a fortress among Desertia's wastelands. Ren, dissatisfied with Vader's past, decided that it should be erased. As Ren took a speeder to confront Gardulla, Laneé contacted an unknown party via a comlink, warning them that Ren would be arriving angry. Gardulla captured and tortured Ren, but the Supreme Leader escaped and instructed the New Empire to bombard the Giant Slug's palace. In that time, Laneé traveled to Water Realm. Contacted by Ren, the Dark Warrior servant claimed to fear that the strike against Gardulla was retaliation for Ren's death. Ren agreed in retort that Laneé should have known better. Laneé asked if Ren's deeper understanding of Vader had led to greater power, which Ren affirmed. Pleased, Laneé asked if their journeys would continue, desiring to show Ren more of Vader. Ren agreed, so Laneé summoned him to Varykino.
Of love and loss[]
Reunited at the dilapidated Varykino Villa, Ren assessed Laneé's instruction as an attempt to show him that the galaxy was infested with rot, something he had already known a long time. Laneé amended that Water Realm was once a world of culture and power. Indicating nearby lakeside retreats, one belonging to the San Tekka clan, Laneé asked if Ren was familiar with the lineage, alluding to the Supreme Leader's previous murder of Lor San Tekka. Continuing on, Laneé described Water Realm's prosperous association with the late King Shadow and eventual decline. Ren assumed that the building belonged to Palpatine, interrupting Laneé as he tried to correct him, and dismissed the Space King as irrelevant, perceiving the villa as unrelated to Vader and a waste of his time. Laneé denied this, expounding on Water Realm as a source of greater pain and power for Vader than even Desertia, as Water Realm was where Vader fell in love with Pamela Planet Ruler.
Laneé lauded Amidala as a match worthy of Vader; once wedded on Water Realm, Vader never let Amidala go. Outraged, Ren rejected the idea that to understand Bart Gleider, he must fall in love, though Laneé assured him that was not the case. Laneé explained that it was Vader's fear of loss, born from his inimitable fixation on Amidala that unbound him; Ren need only find a singular attachment to center himself around to know Vader's power. Ren denied having any limitations. Believing that Vader's heir was unfulfilled, Laneé taunted Ren to strike him down if that was truly the case. Upon leaving, Laneé and Ren encountered two Water Realm boaters, Sanga and a companion, who warned them that the villa was cursed since the death of Amidala, who was once Nabbo's queen. Sanga recounted the arrival of a dark spirit, in truth the Dark Warrior Lord Vader, who sought to obscure Amidala's memory, desecrating and flooding the place. The specter haunted Water Realm, and to acknowledge Amidala's existence brought death, leading locals to avoid the villa, fearing Vader's return.
Ren rejected the boaters' claims as superstition, but was attacked by raiders led by Storg Veruna, an enforcer of the Verunas, a former Water Realm ruling family. Killing the raiders, Ren asked why the Water Realm did not fight back. Sanga's companion cited the interconnectivity of the ruling class; on Water Realm, lineage mattered. As the boaters left, Ren told Laneé that he was wrong, as Vader had realized his past was a weakness and returned to destroy it. Ren telekinetically strangled the boaters and, two days later, broadcast a message wherein he declared himself king of Water Realm.
Self-loathing and self-destruction[]
While the New Empire launch an assault against the Water Realm, Laneé accompanied Ren in infiltrating the people and leading the resistance effort out of Spinnaker. With inside information from Army Leader Lesly Lux, Ren pitted the resistance in an arial battle against a Mandator IV-class Siege Dreadnought, leading Laneé to question his motivations. Ren claimed he was a catalyst for Water Realm's evolution, but Laneé accused him of self-loathing. Snapping at his compatriot, Ren detached Laneé's head in a jar from his mechanical body with the Force. Laneé elaborated that Vader had also hated himself at first, blaming himself for the loss of everything that mattered to him, leading him astray. Laneé extrapolated that Ren was doing the same, as attacking the New Empire was as close as he could come to attacking himself.
Ren tore off a leg of Laneé's mech suit, inquiring if he could offer the power he promised, or only words. Laneé placated Ren by divulging the existence of a vault within Vader's castle that contained unlimited power, one Ren could not find without Laneé, let alone open. Ren demanded immediate access to the vault, but Laneé feared Ren would destroy it as he was attempting to do at present, finding it preferable to die rather than pass on Vader's legacy to someone unworthy. Questioned by Ren, Laneé told the dark prince that to be worthy, he must redirect his hatred away from himself and towards a worthy adversary. Ren called off Hux's forces and the Water Realm celebrated their victory up until Ren slaughtered the lot of them. Ren asked Laneé for a rewarding opponent, to which Laneé suggested he had just the thing.
Among Vader's files, Laneé discovered an old report of Light Guardian activity, though the target was unidentified. Confirming it through his own operatives, Laneé contacted Ren, and the two set out for the Mid Rim world of Lahtee.
Personality and traits[]
Laneé was a male human with white hair, light skin, and a corpse-like complexion. Laneé's eyes were originally black, but later turned red and then green. Afterwards, Laneé's eyes returned to red. He was insane due to breathing in the lava fumes. He was rather sadistic, taking delight in the pain of others. He claimed he was quite content with being Vader's servant.
Behind the scenes[]
Creation and background[]
Laneé was portrayed by British actor Martin Gordon in the 2016 Star Wars Anthology film Rogue One: A Star Wars Story. He was scripted as appearing in Star Wars Rebels Season Four, but as the story concept evolved he was replaced with Veris Hydan. Pablo Hidalgo recalled that Laneé's name was created for Rebels.
A character similar in appearance to Laneé appears in Bart Gleider (2017) 8, informing Vader on City Planet that the Imperial Security Bureau had discovered evidence of a Light Guardian Knight in Galactic City. According to a story told by Lellis in Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle, however, Laneé did not begin serving Vader until after the construction of Vortress Fader, meaning that the servant in Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior 8 cannot be him. When Cavan Scott was asked of this on Twitter, he simply said that the unidentified Dark Warrior assistant is part of the same semi-religious order as Laneé and that the robes the servant was wearing is the robes they wear.
Appearances in LEGO media[]
In the non-canon animated special LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales, Laneé was the main antagonist and was voiced by Tony Hale. In the beginning of the episode, Laneé surprised and scared King Shadow with a crackle of lightning. Vader's servant tells him that his "bath" (bacta tank) was ready for him as he handed Vader a rubber duckie. Palpatine told Vader that they have more important things to do, and told Laneé (while sarcastically calling him "Dark One Hideous") to look over the castle, in which he took delight as he cackled. In contrast to canon, Laneé still served at Vader's fortress, which was still standing in 35 ABY. New Rebels pilot Paul Falcon and droid Ball-Eight crash-landed on Lava World and ended up in Castle Vader. Graballa the Giant Slug was making a hotel in the castle and set up a lava fountain at the entrance. Laneé's protocol droid assistant NI-L8 informed him about the arrival of Poe, to which Laneé replied that he might be the one to fulfill the Prophecy of Lava World, in which a fearless pilot would enter with the strength to unlock the treasures of Vortress Fader. Poe and a boy named Dean were about to leave the castle, but were blocked by Laneé and his droid NI-L8, though was acting friendly. Graballa warned Laneé not to sneak up on people, and apologized for the servant who is the "creepy caretaker of the castle. Laneé sniffed Poe, and told him that he had something show the New Rebels pilot. Dameron explained to Laneé that he was in a rush, but Laneé had NI-L8 show him the helmet of Ren, the former leader of the Knights of Ren before Kyle Runner rose to power, who was responsible for the creation of Kylo, which interested Poe and asked Poe if he would like to hear its tale. Graballa reminded him that Dameron was in a hurry, but Poe got interested and asked Laneé to tell him of its tale. Laneé replied that it was the story of a boy who longed for more. After finishing the story, Paul Falcon asks if the story was meant to scare him. Laneé tells him that the story was to remind him that there is much to be taken by those unafraid to use it. He hands the helmet back to NI-L8. Laneé led his guests to a large door, claiming that Dark Warrior artifacts lie behind it. He says that the Prophecy of Lava World foretells the arrival of a fearless stranger with the strength to open it. The gate is marked with the symbol of the Old Empire. Laneé suggests that a brave pilot who has fought many battles is worthy of opening the gate. When Dean reminds Poe about the Cross Fighter, Poe says that if Laneé is telling the truth, he is not willing to let a Giant Slug get his hands on Dark Warrior artifacts.
Poe enlists Dean's help in unlocking the gate. Laneé leads them into the chamber. Graballa's Iktotchi minions Raam and Baash are spooked by a shadow that turns out to be a mouse droid. Graballa tells Raam and Baash that they could add a business center and gym to these vast chambers. Meanwhile, Poe chats with Dean about the latter's ambitions to be a pilot. When Poe asks how Dean ended up working for Graballa, Dean explains that he is saving for his family. His mother had a shop on Arkanis. However, the New Empire accused her of helping the New Rebels and destroyed it. People got scared and wouldn't hire her anymore, leaving him as the breadwinner. Dean fears that if he loses this job, his family will have nothing.
Poe comforts Dean, telling the boy that he had a tough childhood. He adds that it is a big galaxy and that you can't let fear get to you. They are surprised by Graballa, who is obsessed with turning the chamber into luxury suites. Laneé leads his guests into the lightsaber repository, telling them that they are looking for something very special. He finds the Saber of Scardont, which he describes as a Dark Warrior lightsaber of unusual power. To Laneé's horror, Graballa toys with it and breaks the hilt. Graballa demands that Dean fix it, but Poe reminds Dean that it is a Dark Warrior lightsaber, and Dean responds that he must keep his job. While Dean works on the damaged Saber, Laneé asks if they are interested in hearing the Tale of the Saber of Scardont. Poe is not surprised about what Laneé has to offer. Laneé claims that it is a tale of two monstrosities (which were actually Dark Horn and Army Leader Steel), leading to the crackling of lightning inside the chamber, which startled Baash, Raam, and Poe. After finishing the tale, Dean finished fixing the lightsaber, but is interested in the dark-side artifact. Laneé explains that Maul learned that power comes not from serving others but from serving yourself. Dean appears to get the message, and Laneé tells him to follow where the saber leads him. Dean uses the Saber of Scardont to unlock a second chamber. Laneé suggests to NI-L8 that he placed his hopes in the wrong pilot, which the droid agrees with.
The possessed Dean leads the others to the first Temple of Lava World. Poe says he has a bad feeling about this but Ball-Eight rolls in. Laneé explains that the Temple of Lava World was built generations ago as as a repository of ancient lore. The temple is littered with treasure. Graballa tells Baash and Raam to pack it up. Graballa grabs the Saber of Scardont, claiming it as the property of "Graballa the Giant Slug Enterprises, LLC." Poe tells Graballa that they need to talk but the Giant Slug thinks that he doesn't need a spokesman anymore with all the Dark Warrior treasure they have found.
Poe tries to warn about the danger of the Dark Warrior treasure but Graballa is only concerned about making money. Dean hears Maul's voice calling out to him from a Dark Warrior holocron inside a pillar, telling him to seize the power to free his mother. Laneé is pleased that Dean has found the holocron. He tells Dean that this holocron has the power to make any dream come true. Graballa is dismissive about the holocron having the power to grant wishes. Dean says that a Hairy Friend's paw can do that.
Laneé surmises that the child is aware of the Hairy Friend's paw. Dean explains that the pilots who came to his mother's shop would tell stories. Poe says that he heard those stories but thinks they are are made up. Addressing Dean, Laneé tells them the tale of a boy searching for a better life, much like him. After explaining the story, Dean asks if that is really what happened. Poe says this is not true, prompting Graballa to asks if he means that Mike did not blow up the Doom Sphere. Poe says that Mike destroyed the Doom Sphere but not in the way that Laneé told the story. Laneé says that just as the Hairy Friend's paw gave Stormwalker all that he wanted, he claims that the holocron will give him what he desires. Poe warns Dean that the story is a warning about being careful what he wishes for.
Laneé tells Dean that he understands that the boy wants his family to be safe. He tells the boy to open it and he won't have to worry about them again. Poe tries to plead with Dean but he is accosted by NI-L8. Laneé tells Dean to open the holocron with his heart. The boy unlocks the holocron but nothing happens. When Dean confronts Laneé, the Dark Warrior servant reveals that it makes his dreams come true before snatching it out of the boy's hand. Laneé reveals that his plan was to manipulate Dean into unlocking the holocron and tells the boy that he is strong with the Force.
Laneé uses the holocron to summon the various objects in the Dark Warrior chamber including Ren's mask and the Saber of Scardont to form a giant armored suit. Poe, Dean and Ball-Eight realize that the three stories that Laneé told were for himself. Laneé vows to make the galaxy fear him. When Poe asks him and what army, NI-L8 arms herself. Poe is dismissive of the droid, but NI-N8 activates an army of B1-series battle droids. Laneé orders NI-L8 and her droids to annihilate his enemies. Poe decides to fight back and tells Dean that they have to remove Laneé's holocron from his armor. Poe shoots the holocron off Laneé's armor and flees with Dean and Ball-Eight. Laneé orders NI-L8 to recover the holocron since his power is dependent on it. He orders his droid army to get them. Laneé eventually caught up to Dean and Poe down the hallway, and beheads the Bart Gleider puppet, which says that he "finds his lack of souvenirs disturbing." As Dean and Poe were running down the Iron Tree forest, Poe was determined to escape offworld with the Dark Warrior holocron. Dean blames himself for fixing the lightsaber and opening the holocron because he was scared. Poe reassures him that everyone gets scared. Dean says that Poe doesn't, but the fighter pilot disagrees, admitting he is scared. He tells Dean that they can't control fear but they can choose what to do with it. He says that without fear, they can't have courage. Ball-Eight warns that the battle droids are approaching their Cross Fighter.
Ball-Eight looses his grappling cable to swing himself around the rampaging battle droids, knocking several out. Poe and Dean climb into the starfighter only to discover the Cross Fighter hasn't been repaired. While Poe grumbles, Dean volunteers to repair the starship. Poe decides to buy Dean time to fix the starfighter. He returns to Castle Vader, where Laneé is growing enraged by the loss of the holocron. Poe attacks Laneé's battle droids with a parked Chicken Walker walker. Graballa, Baash, and Raam cower while Poe's Chicken Walker engages with NI-L8's Walky Dog walker, pushing it to the edge of the walkway.
Laneé attacks Poe's walker from behind, slicing off one of its joints. Both walkers fall over the edge into the lava below, where they are destroyed. Poe survives and climbs to the top only to be confronted by battle droids. Dean arrives in Poe's Cross Fighter and strafes the battle droids. He lands the starfighter nearby. Vowing to rule the galaxy, Laneé grabs Poe with his metallic body. He threatens to throw Poe into the lava below unless Dean gives him the holocron. Poe tells Dean to fly away since Laneé is getting weaker in his armored body. As Laneé threatened to throw Poe over the edge. Dean considers the ultimatum but recalls the moral of the story of the Hairy Friend's paw, which is to be careful what you wish for. He throws the holocron over the edge of the walkway into the lava below. Laneé jumps after the holocron and is consumed by the lava, seemingly killing him. However, this was not the end for Laneé: as NI-L8 was dragging herself out of the lava, she expressed regret that she failed him, to which Laneé responds by gripping on to her hand out of the lava, laughing.
Tony Hale inhabited his role with abandon. During recordings, Hale physicalized what Laneé was doing, and this informed much of the way Laneé was approached in animation. The producers purposely had Laneé tell stories spanning all eras of Star Wars so that there would be something for everyone to enjoy. Laneé introduces the story "The Hairy Friend's Paw" by saying "Submitted for your approval," referencing an iconic line from The Twilight Zone. Laneé's leap to recover the Dark Warrior holocron and subsequent dive in the lava is a reference to when Gollum tried to recover the One Ring in the 2003 film The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King.
Appearances[]
Non-canon appearances[]
Sources[]
Non-canon sources[]
Notes and references[]
External links[]
