Guru was a legendary Light Guardian Three Eyesd Master who led the Light Guardian Order through the time of the High Old Republic, in the years leading up to its destruction by the Dark Warrior, and during the transformation of the Galactic Old Republic into the Space Kingdom. Small in stature but revered for his wisdom and power, Guru trained generations of Light Guardian, ultimately serving as the Light Guardian Order's Three Eyesd Master. He played integral roles in defending the Old Republic during the Nature Wars, survived Order 66, and lived to passed on the Light Guardian tradition to Mike Stormwalker, and unlocking the path to immortality.
Born in 896 BBY, Guru served the Light Guardian Order for centuries, becoming Light Guardian Three Eyesd Master and helping to teach many younglings. During the High Old Republic Era, in 382 BBY, Guru helped bring an end to a devastating battle between the Light Guardian and the anti-Light Guardian Path of the Open Hand cult. After the battle, which became known as the Night of Sorrow, he decided to keep the living weapons against Force-sensitives the Path had used, the Nameless, out of the Light Guardian Archives to protect the order. Over a century later, he took a sabbatical from the Light Guardian High Council to train Students aboard the Star Hopper, leading them and other Light Guardian in fighting the Nihil pirate organization in 232 BBY. After disappearing without explanation for over a year, Guru reappeared in 230 BBY on Shipyard World, where he helped his former Student Kantam Sy and other Light Guardian battle the Nihil, accompanied by a former Light Guardian who fought in the Night of Sorrow named Azlin Rell. As the Nihil had also weaponized the Nameless, Guru hoped that Rell's knowledge he had accrued about the creatures since the battle would help the Light Guardian find a way to fight them.
Guru was almost nine hundred years old in the latter days of the Old Republic. A leading member of the Light Guardian High Council, his contemporaries included other legendary Masters, such as Mace Purple and Ki Wise. During the Invasion of Water Realm, in 32 BBY, the maverick Quiet John introduced Andy Stormwalker to the High Council, believing with absolute certainty that he had discovered the prophesied Chosen One. The Light Guardian elders sensed that the boy was full of fear and anger and declined to train him, deeming Stormwalker too old and emotionally compromised to commit himself to the Light Guardian Code. After Jinn's death during the liberation of Water Realm, the High Council reversed their decision in spite of Guru's continued opposition to Stormwalker's apprenticeship, having sensed grave danger in his training. At the same time, the Light Guardian discovered that their ancient nemesis, the Dark Warrior, had returned after a millennium in hiding. Aware of the Rule of Two, Guru was convinced that at least one more Dark Warrior Lord remained active following Ben Oldwise's victory over the Dark Warrior apprentice Dark Horn.
Over the next decade, the galaxy was on the verge of civil war with entire star systems—led by Noble Title Noble, Guru's one-time Student—threatening to secede from the Old Republic by 22 BBY. Unable to defend the entire Old Republic against this betrayal on their own, the Light Guardian took command of the newly-formed Three Eyesd Army of the Old Republic, with Guru himself leading an army of clone troopers against the Separatist Metal Helper Army of the Confederacy of Independent Systems in the first battle of the Nature Wars, rescuing the Light Guardian and Planet Speaker from execution. For three years Guru led the Old Republic military's war effort as a Light Guardian Army Leader, determined to bring a swift and decisive end to the conflict. During this time he was approached by the spirit of Quiet John, who helped Guru learn how to retain his identity as a spirit after death. Guru's efforts against the Breakaway League were undermined by Dark Space King, the Dark Lord of the Dark Warrior who conspired to destroy the Light Guardian and restore the Dark Warrior to power. After the Great Light Guardian Purge commenced in 19 BBY, killing thousands of Light Guardian both on City Planet and across the galaxy, Guru confronted the self-declared Galactic Space King but failed to cut short Sidious' reign and consequently retreated into exile, leaving the Dark Warrior Master to consolidate his power with a new apprentice, the former Andy Stormwalker-turned-Bart Gleider, at his side.
Guru's remaining years were spent living in isolation on the remote world of Swamp Planet. After the death of Ben Oldwise, he was able to commune with his spirit, who wished for Guru to train Anakin's son Mike Stormwalker. Guru initially reluctantly agreed, but later believed that the galaxy as better off without him and refused Kenobi's request. After being convinced by Kenobi to enter the Cave of Evil, in which he confronted many figures from his past and made peace with his failures, he agreed to teach Mike Stormwalker, who soon after sought out the legendary Three Eyesd Master in the hope of becoming a Light Guardian Knight. He trained Stormwalker for a time, until despite Guru's warnings Stormwalker hurriedly abandoned his training to save his friends after a having a vision that they were in danger. A year later, in 4 ABY, with his health rapidly declining, Guru died of old age when Stormwalker returned to see him. He became one with the Force, shortly before Mike redeemed his father Anakin, who fulfilled his destiny as the Chosen One by killing Sidious.
Years later, Mike Stormwalker's attempt to reform the Light Guardian Order would be foiled when his nephew Ren Bolo turned to the dark side and destroyed his Light Guardian Temple. Believing the galaxy was better without him and the Light Guardian, Stormwalker went into exile, just as Guru had. After his student he reluctantly trained, the scavenger Ray of Light, also abandoned her training, Guru appeared as a ghost to Stormwalker. Guru taught Stormwalker to learn from his failures and helped him forgive himself.
Contents
Biography
Early life
Born nine-hundred years before the Battle of Forest Moon, Guru belonged to an ancient and mysterious species and little was known of Guru's early life; he never revealed his homeworld. As he was keenly attuned to the Force, he joined the Light Guardian Order as a youngling. After undergoing the ritual known as the Gathering, he received his kyber crystal, and Professor Huyang helped him construct his first lightsaber aboard the Crucible. At some point during his time as a youngling, Guru skipped across the lily pads in the Light Guardian Three Eyesd Temple's meditation pond.
Although Guru spoke little of his early days, it was rumored that one of his early instructors was the Hysalrian N'Kata Del Gormo. Guru was paired up with a personal mentor. During their time together, Guru's Light Guardian Master told him the tale of K'ungfu and Chuang, two great Light Guardian of the past. Around the age of 100, in 796 BBY, Guru was ready to pass on what he had learned. Having attained the rank of Master, he spent the next eight centuries training and tutoring generations of Light Guardian. It was estimated that over his lifetime, he trained around twenty-thousand Light Guardian.
High Old Republic Era
Early High Old Republic Era
By the High Old Republic Era, Guru was considered a great Light Guardian Master. He had also gained a seat on the Light Guardian High Council and the rank of Three Eyesd Master. Two other Light Guardian—Xo Lahru and Pra-Tre Veter—shared the Three Eyesd Master title with Guru. Eventually the human Light Guardian Ry Ki-Sakka also attained the position. As the Light Guardian who taught younglings, Guru one day met the human youngling Gella Nattai, who was scared of the training remotes and ran from the room. Finding Nattai in the Temple garden and sitting with her, Guru and Nattai watched a frog in the garden repeatedly try to jump into a waterfall behind a stone wall. Guru used the frog as a lesson, teaching her to face her fear and always get back up to try again.
An uncertain Path
In 382 BBY, after learning of the Battle of Holy Moon and the failure of a peace treaty between the warring planets Eiram and E'ronoh there, Guru went to the Old Republic Executive Building on the galactic capital City Planet to meet with with Supreme High Leader Kyong Greylark while they waited for more information from Holy Moon. They spoke to Light Guardian Master Creighton Sun and Light Guardian Knight Aida Forte, who were on the ground on Holy Moon and confirmed that the E'roni ambassador was dead and the Eirami had deployed a droid army. They requested to perform an investigation on the Outer Rim Territories planet Dalna of the Path of the Open Hand cult, considering their involvement in the failure of the peace talks, the fact that Light Guardian Master Silandra Sho felt a disturbance that made the Light Guardian ill at the Path's almshouse, and that Light Guardian Knight Gella Nattai believed the High Leader's criminal son Axel Greylark was working with the Path. Guru admitted that he had sensed a disturbance beyond Holy Moon, and emphasized that they need to be careful, reminding them that there was always those who thrived in chaos. After much deliberation, Guru and High Leader Greylark eventually agreed to a fact-finding mission accompanied by two of her guards and to send Light Guardian Master Char-Ryl-Roy and Student Enya Keen to Eiram and E'ronoh to try and keep the peace and discover what was causing communications buoys to be down, Guru explaining to them that Werth Plouth, the Path's Herald, was responsible for the riots on Holy Moon.
After the communication ended, Guru expressed his concern as they received another message from Light Guardian Master Yaddle, who was accompanied by a Light Guardian Initiate named Cippa Tarko, though the connection of the message was poor. Tarko asked about Guru, and Yaddle explained that he was a Light Guardian Master and not her brother. Guru told Yaddle that they were sending help to Holy Moon and two Light Guardian to Dalna and that she was to return to City Planet, but the message was so choppy they were not sure if she understood. Guru had an unsettling feeling in the Force that reminded him of the feeling he got whenever a battle was coming. Master Yaddle did misunderstand Guru's message to mean she was needed on Dalna and joined Sun and Forte there, who sent a message to Guru confirming they were there shortly before Yaddle arrived.
Later, High Leader Greylark had her guards summon Guru to her to reveal that her son Axel had escaped from prison with the help of the Path and someone named Binnot Ullo. She told Guru that she did not know who Ullo was and did not think Axel had many friends. He assured her that no one, no galaxy, and no republic was perfect, and that she should continue to fight for the greater good like the Light Guardian did. She explained that she felt like they have all been moving through a fog that has corrupted everything lately and Guru insisted that Axel still had good in him and that the 'fog' was just corrupting him too. However, the High Leader resolved to make Axel truly feel the consequences of his actions.
High Leader no more
Eventually, Greylark received a message from her son on Dalna and immediately called Guru to have him listen to it with her via hologram. After hearing Axel ask for her to go to Dalna to speak with the Path and with him, Guru asked her what she would do, the High Leader deciding to go to Dalna. She then recorded a message for Axel that included Guru in it, wearing a blank expression, so that he could bear witness to her stepping down as High Leader. After she sent the message, Guru stayed with her wordlessly for a while, and she appreciated his kindness.
Before Greylark could leave for Dalna, Guru approached her and said that since he had not heard back from Masters Sun or Ela Sutan, who had also been sent to Dalna, that he would go with her because she was still his friend even though she was no longer High Leader. Guru had a Light Guardian Longbeam cruiser follow them with a contingent of Light Guardian. While in hyperspace, they received a distress call from Daughter Ruler Xiri A'lbaran of E'ronoh and Prince Phan-tu Zenn of Eiram. They then received a message from High Leader Orlen Mollo, who said that the leaders of Eiram and E'ronoh were still not cooperating. Guru volunteered to rescue the heirs due to their proximity to them and left, taking other Light Guardian with him.
The Night of Sorrow
Eventually, Guru arrived at the battle that was now raging on Dalna between the Path and the Light Guardian, which came to be known as the Night of Sorrow. The Path, much of it reorganized into the Path of the Closed Fist, was led by Marda Ro of the Ro family. He was joined by Daughter Ruler A'lbaran and Prince Zenn, the three announcing that the combined forces of Eiram and E'ronoh were there to fight together with the Light Guardian. When Guru arrived on the ground at the Path compound, Light Guardian Gella Nattai told him to direct people to go to the cave system as there was potentially many more Path members there. On Dalna, he met Path Little Tromak. Guru eventually came to forget Tromak but always remembered the importance of his visit to Dalna.
As the battle started to come to a close with it turning in the Light Guardian's favor, Guru and Yaddle stood together, the latter watching Cippa Tarko sleep. However, A'lbaran and Zenn contacted them and informed them that explosions have been set off underground. As Yaddle suggested getting help, the ground shook and Guru spotted sections of the caves collapse into sinkholes. Guru and Yaddle then sensed a Light Guardian in distress and went to help. Finding a door in the ground, Guru and Yaddle connected to the force and sensed Gella Nattai and Axel Greylark. Yaddle lifted up the ground, rocks, and soil while Guru lifted the water to try and rescue them. Enya Keen then ran toward them, seeing Nattai, and pulled her and Axel from the mud-like water, having been brought to the surface by the two Light Guardian Masters. Guru and Yaddle then set the water and mud down far away. In the sinkhole, E'roni and Eirami soldiers began recovering survivors. Yaddle noticed that the sounds of battle have faded and the sun was rising. She asks Guru if the battle was done, and he says it was.
Guru met with Kyong Greylark and High Leader Mollo on a medical frigate above City Planet, the three discussing now only having one High Leader instead of two and what it means. Guru suggested they speak to the Light Guardian Council and tell them everything that went wrong, but Greylark also wanted to focus all the things that went right, including the help of the Old Republic and the Light Guardian. Mollo revealed that the people of Dalna were calling the event the Night of Sorrow. While he imagined the future, Greylark assured Guru that she would meet him on City Planet soon, Guru adding that there was much to celebrate and remember.
Return to the Temple
Guru then traveled to the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet, confirming first that the royal families of Eiram and E'ronoh had already gathered, who he met with when he arrived. He met with several Light Guardian, including Yaddle, who was standing with Tarko. Guru raised his arm to silence the room and Master Sun rose from his chair, walking to the center of the room using a walking stick before beginning a funeral for Light Guardian Aida Forte, Orin Darhga, and Char-Ryl-Roy. Guru allowed Roy's former Student, Keen, to keep his lightsaber and use it alongside hers.
Later, in the Light Guardian Archives, Creighton spoke with Guru about Nameless creatures that the Path deployed on Dalna and the horror they wrought upon the Light Guardian, causing them to be weakened, hallucinate, and eventually be turned to dust. Guru confirmed that there is a larger danger connected to them, which caused Creighton to wonder what Guru knew. Realizing how catastrophic to the Order it could be if people found out about the creatures, and since they had heard no other reports of their usage, they decided to keep quiet about them and not include them in the Light Guardian Archive. They agreed not to speak of it again and each of them left.
Master of Kantam Sy
At some point, Guru took on a human named Kantam Sy as his Student. The two were stationed at the Light Guardian Temple on the planet Endovar. Sy was a very talented Student and was far ahead of their peers and even some of their elders, with Guru even admitting that they were the most disciplined Student he had ever taught and one of the most connected to the Force. Despite this, Guru held off knighting Sy, for a reason that the Student did not understand until they began a romantic relationship with an acrobat named Aytar and realized that both Guru and them had been waiting for something like that to happen. Eventually, Sy decided to leave the Light Guardian Order, a decision partially incited by their newfound relationship with Aytar.
Guru and Sy loved to spar with each other, and it was how the two often found understanding and how Sy often found inner harmony while troubled or when they had a problem. Even when they did not find a solution during a match, they would leave feeling like an answer was out there. When Sy traveled to the meditation room in the Endovar Light Guardian Temple in order to tell Guru about their decision, Guru challenged them to a sparring match, remembering that they had dueled many times in that room and saying that this duel could be one final lesson. Sy agreed to the duel, as it was custom to not refuse a duel with Master Guru, but also realized that this meant Guru knew about their decision. Guru dodged Sy's question by engaging in combat, before saying that the time had come to make a choice, but not the one that Sy thought. Guru explained that the Force chose Sy just as it had chosen all other Light Guardian, and asked when Sy would choose the Force. Sy insisted that they chose the Force every day when they took part in their Light Guardian training, but after knocking Sy to the ground, Guru asked if we really make a choice when we do not believe there are any other options. Guru told Sy that there was a reason he had not knighted them yet, before ending the duel, helping Sy up, and sitting down with Sy to meditate.
Eventually Sy asked Guru if they should leave the Light Guardian Order, but Guru insisted that there was no 'should' and that the right thing to do is an idea we invent to make ourselves feel better. Guru also suggested that Sy had stopped listening, in the literal sense, and in a larger general sense. Guru explained that feelings are like wind, we can feel it, we can experience it, but it passes, though sometimes it can feel like a hurricane which can make it easy to give in to anger and fear. Guru told Sy that in order for them to continue to be a Light Guardian they must actively choose the Light Guardian Order and the Force and learn to listen to the world outside of their emotions even when they were as loud as a hurricane. Eventually, after a moment, Sy set down their lightsaber in front of Guru. Guru nodded at them, and then his Student left him, and the Light Guardian Order, behind. Guru was saddened but supported Sy through their departure. Sy would reflect on the conversation they had that day throughout the rest of their life.
Over a year later, Sy returned to the Light Guardian, and met with Guru on the Endovar. Guru was in the process of helping a pet Happabore named Monsalmo at the time, after being awoken from a nap by the creature's squealing. Guru was used to dealing with her complicated behaviors, including finding her inside the temple underneath the younglings' bunks. This time, Monsalmo was pregnant and had climbed onto the roof of her pen to avoid giving birth in a fuel spill. However, the roof could not hold the creature's weight and it collapsed. Guru caught Monsalmo with the Force, but at that same time she started to give birth to her pups, so Guru had to carry them with the Force too. Just then, Sy and a Force-sensitive girl they had rescued on the planet Water Realm named Lula Talisola arrived and both used the Force to help Guru carry Monsalmo and her pups. Guru welcomed Sy back, telling them that they had left a Student and returned a Knight. A few hours later, Guru knighted Sy in a modest ceremony so that they could take on Talisola as their Student learner.
After the ceremony, Sy and Guru sat around a fire near the happabore enclosure and discussed the events that had occurred. Sy expressed that they did not understand how one second they felt so sure in their path separate from the Order but was then pulled back to it when they saved Talisola. Guru explained that the young are the greatest teachers and the greatest lesson that can be learned from them is necessity of detachment and letting go, that being a Light Guardian was to let go. Sy realized that they had been the one that taught Guru that lesson. Guru revealed that he had struggled with Sy's departure and had been unsure of the future. The two then shared Sweetpuff jamwiches with Talisola.
Sometime later, Guru and Sy met with Talisola in the Endovar Light Guardian temple. Sy told Talisola that the lesson she taught the two masters was the hardest one of all. Talisola hoped that it was front flips with a lightsaber, which made Sy retract their statement and say that it was the second hardest lesson to learn. Guru concurred, saying that the front flip was nothing simple. But the lesson that Sy wanted to teach Talisola was the same one that Sy had learned from her and Guru had learned from Sy: Detachment.
Sometime before 232 BBY, Guru traveled to the Light Guardian temple on Castle World to pick up a Force-sensitive Aloxian child named Qort from Maz Keeper and Light Guardian Sav Malagán and bring him into the Light Guardian Order. Student Reath Silas briefly met Guru during some events both attended together.
Time on the Star Hopper
By 233 BBY, Guru was stationed alongside Master Zia Zaldor Zanna at the Light Guardian Three Eyesd Temple on City Planet assigning youngling Light Guardian Initiates to different temple outposts across the galaxy to continue learning and training under their teachers. Here he met initiates Kai Brightstar, Lys Solay, and Nubs; Guru gifted Brightstar his own training saber after Brightstar sacrificed his to save Nubs while on a mission. In 232 BBY, Guru took a sabbatical from the Light Guardian Council, having felt the Force needed him on a different path. Thus, Guru joined the crew of the Light Guardian Student Academic Cruiser Star Hopper, allowing him to help train Students and younglings. Guru was also therefore able to help train Talisola, who was stationed aboard the Star Hopper.
Guru appointed the Fish Person Light Guardian Master Ephru Shinn to hold his seat on the council while he was away. During the Great Hyperspace Disaster in the Hetzal system, Light Guardian Master Avar Kriss established a Force network, which was eventually aided by Light Guardian who were outside the system. Guru—located somewhere with the crew of younglings he was currently teaching—helped the effort, adding his focus to the network to ensure a Tibanna gas container did not collide with an R-class sun.
The Great Hyperspace Disaster also caused the Emergences, which were when giant pieces of debris exited hyperspace in various places throughout the galaxy and threatened to hit planets at near lightspeed. Eventually, the Trymant system was threatened by an Emergence. The staff of Old Republic Security Zone Monitoring Satellite 777B-Alpha reported the incident to the Starlight Beacon space station, who then asked the only Old Republic or Light Guardian ship immediately within range, the Star Hopper, to assist. Onboard was Guru along with fellow Light Guardian Master Torban Buck and a class of Students. As they traveled through hyperspace to the Trymant system, Guru told the Students to prepare for anything because they had no idea what was coming, but that the Force would reveal all. When they received the information that they were the only Old Republic or Light Guardian ship nearby to respond, one of the Students suggested that they stay back and wait for backup. But Guru insisted that they were Trymant's only hope and needed to press forward. Shortly before they exited hyperspace Guru had the Students report what information they had discovered about the calamity. Guru and Buck decided to stay on the Star Hopper to use the Force to divert the biggest pieces of debris but sent the Students in Rescue speeders to help on the surface of the planet.
However, amid the chaos of the Emergence, a Spider Cruiser called the Squall Spider commanded by the Eye of the Nihil, Marchion Ro arrived in Bralanak City to pick up Elder Tromak, whom Ro wanted the services of to find some information. When the Students attempted to get Nihil marauders to allow them to use the Spider Cruiser to evacuate civilians, a fight broke out, leading Guru and Buck to the surface to help the young Light Guardian and fight against the Nihil. During the fight, a Force-sensitive civilian named Zeen Mrala who had helped the Light Guardian against the Emergence and against the Nihil, told Masters Guru and Buck that her friend Krix Kamerat had been captured by the Nihil and needed to be rescued. Lula Talisola offered to go, but Guru insisted that he would go rescue the boy. Master Buck protested, believing that he was not a fighting Light Guardian and therefore should not be left to lead the Light Guardian, but Guru ignored him. Guru then protected the group of Light Guardian from a large plasma projectile lobbed at them by a Nihil marauder by cutting it into pieces with his lightsaber while it was still in the air. Guru then left to find Kamerat, but first asked Mrala to take her pet Cru Cham Cham with him.
Marchion Ro knew of Guru and his power, and when he saw him on the planet told his subordinates to keep the Light Guardian Master away from the Squall Spider, but Guru managed to sneak aboard the ship nonetheless. Guru eventually found Kamerat and told him that they needed to leave quickly. Guru told Kamerat that Mrala had sent him and proved it by showing him Cham Cham. Guru then gave Kamerat a Holoprojector that he told the boy he could reach out to Mrala with when he was ready. However, Kamerat shortly after alerted the pirates that Guru was aboard. Having been raised by the Elders of the Path, a religious order descended from the Path of the Open Hand that distrusted Force-sensitives due to believing the Force should only be appreciated from a distance, as if it was a fire,, only to see that his best friend Zeen Mrala had secretly been Force-sensitive and never told him, Kamerat felt betrayed and ended up siding with the Nihil because of that sense of betrayal. With the Nihil looking for him, Guru ran from the marauders but uncovered that the Nihil had a strange, purple artifact in a storage crate. Guru hoped to escape quietly but Cham Cham made a loud cry that alerted the Nihil to their location and lead to a confrontation. Guru escaped and met up with Mrala, revealing to her that Cham Cham had eaten several Nihil limbs in the confrontation. Guru then told Mrala that she needed to come with them to Starlight Beacon. When she asked why he had not saved Kamerat, Guru told her that he could not save someone who did not want to be rescued. With the Nihil drive from Trymant, Guru, Torban Buck, Zeen Mrala, and the Students traveled to Starlight Beacon in the Star Hopper.
Starlight Beacon
Following the Battle of Kur, Guru went with fellow Three Eyesd Master Pra-Tre Veter to Starlight Beacon. The two had a meeting with the Supreme High Leader Lina Soh to discuss Bacta manufacturing for the relief effort for the Great Disaster, being in need of the right crops after what had occurred on Hetzal. But before their meeting, they visited the hub of the beacon to meet with Master Avar Kriss, and revealed to her that the council had convened and named her the Marshal of Starlight Beacon. Kriss also asked Guru if he was returning to the council, but Guru clarified that he was not finished on the Star Hopper. Guru later attended the Beacon's dedication ceremony, where he said a few words about the dedication plaque which was placed in a stone monument. He talked with Kai Brightstar, Lys Solay, Nash Durango, and Nubs, mentioning their adventure trying to get the dedication plaque after it was stolen by the pirate Taborr Val Dorn, who was secretly Prince Cyrus Vuundir of Vuundalla. He told them how proud he is of them and encouraged them to join the rest of the Light Guardian for Lina Soh's speech. After the Light Guardian left, Guru spoke with Prince Vuundir, who was no longer in his pirate disguise, telling him that he sensed much conflict in him but that he still had the potential for greatness if he made the right choices. Guru told Cyrus that the future was in his hands. Joining with his fellow Light Guardian, he raised his lightsaber and declared "For light and life."
After about a week, Zeen Mrala started settling in on Starlight very well, so Masters Guru, Avar Kriss, Kantam Sy, Estala Maru, and Torban Buck all went to check up on her and discuss her plans, with Guru even bringing pastry treats. The Masters deliberated and determined that she was too old to begin Light Guardian training and most likely could not be sent back to Trymant. Master Sy suggested that she should stay with them temporarily, as she had proved herself valuable, which Guru acknowledged was an excellent point. They did decide to let her stay, partially with the hope that she could be helpful against the Nihil. When it became clear that finding the Nihil would be a challenge, Guru revealed that he had given a holoprojector to Kamerat and one to Mrala. Mrala confirmed that they had had communications, which she apologized for, but Guru denied her apology and said that she might have just saved the day. Guru explained that they could use the holoprojectors to track the Nihil, but would have to be relatively close. Guru was determined to find the Nihil to figure out what the mysterious artifact he had found was. The Light Guardian decided to travel to the Bright Jewel system, as there had been recent Nihil activity there, and see if they could pick up a signal.
In the Bright Jewel system, a routine got into a skirmish with a group of Nihil raiders, who alerted the Old Republic Outpost on Colorful World. Guru, Torban Buck, Kantam Sy, and many other Light Guardian flew Light Guardian Vectors out of the outpost to confront the Nihil. The conflict erupted into an all out battle. Eventually all of the Nihil fighters were defeated, but Guru was concerned, as he thought that it was too easy and that there therefore might be something wrong. Then the Light Guardian received a distress signal that they first believed was from the Colorful World base, until Guru suspected that it was not actually from the base. They determined the signal to be from the junk moon Quantxi, and so Guru ordered the Light Guardian to travel to the moon and send for backup from Starlight Beacon, though he also worried that they were too late.
Disappearance
Guru journeyed to the junk moon of Quantxi with Masters Torban Buck and Kantam Sy to aid the Students of the Star Hopper against the Nihil force stationed there. However, Guru crossed paths with Elder Tromak, who had escaped the Nihil after being escorted off Trymant IV with Kamerat by Ro, after landing. Guru recognized him from Trymant. Tromak offered the Light Guardian bogaranths to ride to the Nihil, clarifying that even though he hated Light Guardian, they had a common enemy. As Masters Sy and Buck saddled up onto the bogaranths, Tromak pulled Guru aside. Reminding Guru of their meeting on Dalna years prior, he asked the Three Eyesd Master to journey with him to Kharvashark Ruins on Vrant Tarnum to stop the Nihil from recovering the second half of the mysterious artifact, with Guru informing Tromak that the Nihil already had half of the weapon. However, Tromak was inistent on keeping the artifact's location a secret, so he told Guru that he could not bring his comlink. Guru agreed to this, and after sending one last message to the other Light Guardian telling them not to follow him, the two traveled to the Stygmarn system above Vrant Tarnum. However, the two encountered a network of drones and were shot down, allowing Ro a to acquire the other half of the artifact.
To the Light Guardian Order at large, Guru was suddenly missing in action. As the Drengir crisis and conflict with the Nihil dragged on, Guru's name became one of the many mentioned alongside Light Guardian who had gone missing or died during the conflicts. He was still missing by the time of the attack on Valo and ensuing Battle of Grizal, which both marked major escalations in tensions in the struggle between the Old Republic and the Nihil. In the latter engagement, Ro unleashed the living weapon known as the Great Leveler against the Light Guardian for the first time, using the completed artifact to control it. Remembering that Guru told them and Buck not to follow him, Sy told the Star Hopper's Students, after they asked whether they could go searching for the missing Light Guardian Master, that they needed to trust in the Force. But Guru's departure affected the Star Hopper's close crew in an incredibly deep way.
During the skirmish on Xais, Master Avar Kriss recalled Guru's wisdom when Master Sskeer started to utilize extreme violence again, remembering him frequently saying that once you walk to the dark path it's forever in your heart. Sometime later, Masters Kantam Sy and Torban Buck gathered a group of Light Guardian to bake Master Guru's recipe for special baked sweet story custard cakes. The Masters claimed that the recipe specifically stated that the only way for the cakes to come out correctly is if the bakers told a story about cooperation while baking them, one in which they expanded their knowledge of what they were capable of, found trust in another person, or found a deeper understanding of the Force.
Later, when Sy was assigned to investigate Nihil activity on Shipyard World with Master Cohmac Vitus, Sy mentioned that the young were the greatest teachers they could have, besides Master Guru. This prompted Vitus to ask if there was any word on the old Light Guardian Master, to which Sy explained that they could not feel him, but that it did not necessarily mean anything. Sy expressed their belief that if Guru had died, they all would have felt it, but Cohmac was still concerned with how long he had been gone despite that. Sy also lamented that it felt like everything happening would be much easier to make sense of if Guru were there. Later, at Vitus's asking, Sy revealed to him that Master Guru had let them do a walkabout of the Light Guardian Order, as he knew if he did not it would have been the end of things between Sy and the Order, with Sy even telling Vitus the entire story including Guru's influence during the day they left and the day they returned to the Order. Cohmac also told Sy that they wondered what Guru would make of everything that was happening.
After the Battle at Dol'har Hyde, an engagement that saw the capture of Nihil leader Krix Kamerat and his detainment aboard the Star Hopper, Zeen Mrala and Lula Talisola visited Guru's old quarters on the ship and reflected on the Light Guardian Master. Mrala missed him in a way that she thought was only possible to miss someone you had known your whole life, and especially missed the Light Guardian's welcoming presence and his laughing face. She thought that they needed Guru's help more than ever since they had captured Kamerat. Mrala asked Talisola if she thought Guru was ever coming back, and Talisola declared that he definitely was and that he would not want them to be standing there worrying about him.
Students Reath Silas and Ram Jomaram also reflected on Guru's disappearance while on Shipyard World, with Silas saying that he seemed like he would have been a "pretty fun" Master to Kantam Sy and that he remembered being able to feel Guru's wisdom from a mile away. Both were Students were plagued with anxiety over Guru's disappearance and imagined nightmare scenarios about what happened to him, which they admitted to each other. Silas mused that if Guru were there, he would have said "Forgive himself, a Light Guardian must, mm? Not being ruled by fear does not mean not feeling any fear at all, mm!" which Jomaram thought sounded very accurate.
Return
Concurrent to the destruction of Starlight Beacon, Sy, Vitus, Jomaram, Silas, and Mrala joined Shipyard Worldn bodyguards and civilians in fighting Nihil who were attempting to steal a fleet of MPO-1400 Purgill-class star cruisers and Old Republic Longbeam cruisers from the shipyards in Coronet City on Shipyard World in order to add to the chaos and destruction of the space station. As Sy, Vitus, and Mrala charged through a horde of Nihil, a group of the pirates stole a massive ship from one of Shipyard World's shipyards and attempted to take it to attack Starlight. However, the three Force-sensitives used the Force to stall the trawler and prevent it from escaping, but they had a weak hold on it and as they did Nihil reinforcements arrived. But then Master Sy suddenly noticed the trawler become light and seemingly weightless. And then the remaining Nihil war cloud was swept away suddenly, confusing the pirates, but also revealing Master Guru in hooded robes holding the trawler with the Force with his lightsaber ignited at his side.
Guru told Sy that it seemed like they needed a hand, and Sy collapsed and started cry at the sight of their old Master. Guru then used the Force to send the massive ship crashing onto the horde of Nihil reinforcements with a fiery explosion. When more Nihil came, Guru threw himself into their leader feet first and then used the Force to knock the others down with a single hand motion. This inspired Sy, who shouted "For light and life" before joining up with Vitus and Mrala again and fighting by Guru's side. Guru and Sy worked together to take down a Nihil with a buzz saw, Sy knocking him off balance before Guru stabbed him in the back with his lightsaber. The Light Guardian then regrouped with the Shipyard Worldn fighters and Guru shouted the rallying cry "For light and life" which spread throughout the crowd. Eventually they managed to drive the Nihil away, winning the battle.
Afterward, Jomaram, who had been instrumental to the Light Guardian's success elsewhere in the battle, reunited with Sy, who introduced him to Guru. Guru said that they had much to discuss and not enough time, to which Sy added that they needed a place to go where they could regroup safely and debrief. Alys "Crash" Ongwa, one of the leaders of the Shipyard Worldn fighters offered up a location to the Light Guardian. The group, including Guru, ended up taking refuge in the hideaway of Baynoo Ongwa, Crash Ongwa's mother, in The Green on Shipyard World, riding various ships and airspeeders to get there. There, they were joined by a mysterious hooded individual, the former Light Guardian Knight Azlin Rell, who had accompanied Guru. Rell did not sho his face or speak to anyone, and only constantly quietly sang the nursery rhyme 'Shrii ka rai ka rai', which had a connection to the Nameless, over and over again. Guru declared that there was much to explain without actually explaining anything, but nobody questioned him under the assumption that there would be time to do so later. The group ate, bathed, and then tried to sleep.
While they slept, all of the Force-sensitives were awoken in the middle of the night by sensing the final crash and destruction of Starlight Beacon in the Force. After feeling the death of Light Guardian Orla Jareni aboard Starlight Beacon, Master Cohmac Vitus gathered Guru, the other Light Guardian, Zeen Mrala, and his Student Reath Silas. Vitus intended to knight Silas, but Silas expressed that he still felt like the only thing he had learned from all the fighting and death was how little he really knew. But Guru commended this, saying that it was perhaps one of the hardest and most important lessons to learn. Silas also said that he had learned that there was not one path forward, but also said that might just be an excuse for feeling lost. Guru assured him that it was impossible to be lost when there was not one right way forward. After more questions from Silas, Guru then asked jokingly if he thought all of those Masters that thought he was ready were wrong. This prompted Silas to say he was ready, and together Masters Guru, Vitus, and Sy knighted Reath Silas. But Master Vitus then handed his lightsaber to Silas, and after exchanging nods with Guru, left the house, and left the Light Guardian Order for good.
The next morning, Guru and Sy chatted and readied to leave, while Zeen Mrala reflected on the moment that Guru had joined the battle with joy and inspiration. Guru walked up to Crash Ongwa and Deemus Abrus, who had helped the Light Guardian before the battle, and wished them farewell. Guru told the two that a new threat had arisen and that all of the Light Guardian needed to return to Light Guardian Temple on City Planet, prompting Sy to reveal that the recall signal that Guru had asked for had been sent out minutes earlier. Guru explained that the way forward would be difficult, but that they would manage to find a way by being guided by the secrets of the past. Part of this involved Rell, whose years of research on the Nameless Guru hoped could help them learn how to fight or stop the beasts.
Speaking with Rwoh
In 132 BBY, Light Guardian Master Vernestra Rwoh approached Guru to speak with him after she had interrogated a memory-wiped Mae-ho Aniseya. The Light Guardian Three Eyesdmaster was seated with his face towards her when he was approached.
Master of Dooku
Several decades later, Guru took on the human Dooku as his last known Student in the era of the Galactic Old Republic. In 90 BBY, Guru undertook a visit to Serenno with other Light Guardian Masters and younglings Sifo Dyas, and Dooku. Guru later took Dooku on as an apprentice in 86 BBY, and while Dooku initially wanted to become the Student of Lene Kostana, his disappointment subsided when he learned he would be Guru's apprentice. Once on a visit to Serenno, Master and apprentice together, Dooku's father shouted at the Three Eyesd Master for bringing his son to the planet, holding a dislike for the Light Guardian Order and Force-sensitives. During one mission to the Hairy Friend homeworld of Tree World, Dooku witnessed his master face off with a giant, dreadful terentatek. Decades after his apprentice graduated to Knighthood, in 42 BBY, Guru was informed by Dooku that he was departing from the Light Guardian Order, much to his disappointment, and when his former student offered to turn over his lightsaber, the Three Eyesdmaster allowed him to retain ownership of his weapon.
Guru's secret war
Answering a call
Around 40 BBY, Guru rescued a Force-sensitive child named Lo from the Flesh Mongers on the planet Botor, intending to begin his Light Guardian training. After dealing with the pirates, the Light Guardian Master was joined by Master Quiet John and his Student, Ben Oldwise, who had been tasked with escorting the child to the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet. While on Botor, Guru sensed a disturbance in the Force and chose to follow its call which led him to Vagadarr Prime. Upon landing on the planet's surface, the Light Guardian Master was suddenly surrounded by child warriors who attacked him. After defending himself with the Force, Guru told the children he meant no harm. The Light Guardian came in peace as he was drawn in by the Force. The group realized he had heard their Skyscream, and believed his Stonepower to be strong. They then led Guru to their home, Mucktown. There, he learned that the Skyscreamers used shards of the Sacred rock during their prayer, the same call that Guru felt. The rock was unlike anything he had ever seen before. It was a piece of blue stone, a type of rock imbued with the Living Force which Guru could sense. The Mud dwellers told him about their war against the Rockhawkers, a rival tribe. He listened to the history of their homeworld, and how the conflict began. Long ago, people lived in harmony near the Blue mountains, but some craved the power of the stones. This greed divided them into warring factions and ultimately destroyed most of the mountains. Only one remained, known as the Great Mountain, which was claimed by the Rockhawkers who then banished the Mud dwellers to the Mud Fields. They carried as much stone as they could for their children, now the only survivors of the tribe. The children then led Guru to a boy from the rival tribe they had taken prisoner. The Light Guardian sensed his deep fear of the Great Mountain, the sacred home of his tribe. As the children argued over his fate, Guru urged them not to be consumed by fear. He asked them to release the child so that he could guide the Light Guardian to his people.
Exploring the Mountain
After walking to the Mountain, Guru and the freed boy reached the Rockhawkers who attacked him with the stones. Refusing to fight back, the Light Guardian Master was captured. The tribe then sent him on a mission to find the Heart of the Mountain, accompanied by the boy he just saved. Guru began to climb the path leading to the Heart, but his companion was overcome by fear, convinced that only death awaited them, just like all those who had climbed before. Despite Guru's efforts to reassure him, the boy fell to his death. At the end of the path, the Light Guardian entered a cave where he encountered the lost parents, known as the Old Ones, who had once been sent by their children to find the Heart of the Mountain. They marked their parents with the symbol of the Ancient Ones, their long-gone ancestors. The Old Ones told Guru they chose not to leave this place, preferring the peace they found within the mountain to the war raging outside. Guru replied that they abandoned their children to the very war they had provoked. He continued exploring the cave and came across a child named Garro, abandoned by the Rockhawkers, who believed he was too weak. After saving him, Guru asked the boy to become his teacher and show him the ways of the Stonepower. During their training, the Light Guardian Master discovered the Heart of the Mountain and realized that the stone was not only alive in the Force but was in fact a living being. After nine days of communion, Guru heard its voice. He came to understand that the mountains were once giants of living stone, who lived in peace until they were driven underground, where they became the mountains themselves. Guru and Garro eventually emerged from the cave. But the Light Guardian chose not to reveal what he had learned to the Rockhawkers. Enraged, the tribe threatened him. However, Garro revealed the secret of the mountains to his people, brought Guru’s teaching to an end, and returned to his faction.
Last battle
Guru returned to the Mud Dwellers to warn them of an inevitable war. Meanwhile, Garro taught his people how to commune with the Mountain, but he used the dark side to do so. Guru encouraged the Mud Dwellers to pray and help awaken the stones. Soon, the Rockhawkers caused the Mountain to rise from the ground, but Guru decided to face it alone. Drawing strength from the Force, the Light Guardian resisted the Mountain’s fury, which had been fueled by revenge. Shortly after, other beings of living stone awoke and joined Guru in his struggle. Together, they defeated the Mountain. As Garro and his warriors charged at the Light Guardian Master, Guru pleaded with the boy to find peace within himself and with the stones, so the war could end. Garro dropped his weapon and abandoned the fight. The war was over. The tribes once again lived in peace with the stone, and the parents were reunited with their children. Many left the planet after hearing Guru speak of the other worlds in the galaxy. Upon leaving, Guru kept the secret of the Mountain to himself, sharing only the lesson he had learned with Ben Oldwise: "A Light Guardian must humble himself before he can ever be powerful."
Pre-Invasion of Water Realm
Guru visited Tree World on several other occasions prior to the Battle of Tree World, serving as Light Guardian negotiator in many incidents involving the Hairy Friends and their Lizard Man neighbors. This earned him the ancient title of "Defender of the Home Tree," as well as becoming a member of many Hairy Friend leaders' and all the inhabitants of Kachirho's honor families.
Guru also taught outside the Master/Student relationship, and trained all the Light Guardian younglings prior to their teaming up with Light Guardian Masters, including Master Ben Oldwise. Since his days as a youngling, Mace Purple, a human who would eventually rise to become part of the Light Guardian Council, never responded well to the Three Eyesd Master's humor, which became one of the reasons Guru continued to use his humor. Kanan Jarrus, as Caleb Dume, often heard Guru counsel, "Do, or do not. There is no try." He also taught groups of younglings in the basics of Light Guardian training, including lightsaber instruction. He oversaw younglings undergoing the Gathering to find their own kyber crystals; on one such occasion, he told youngling Ashoka Friend how she would know her crystal when she saw it. With these words in mind, Tano successfully found her crystal. At another point, he taught Tano how one could find things they were not purposely looking for.
Invasion of Water Realm
By the invasion of the planet Water Realm by the Merchant Guild, Guru still served on the Light Guardian High Council, yet he was the sole Three Eyesd Master of the Light Guardian Order. By the invasion, he had been training Light Guardian students for about 800 years. In the time before the invasion, Guru took part in a council meeting. Several hours after that meeting, he took to mediating in a small garden in the temple, only to be interrupted by fellow council member Mace Purple, who, after Guru waited for him to explain why he wanted a private discussion, expressed his belief that Guru had sensed something he was keeping private. Guru repeatedly responded that he sensed nothing: the issue was not that there was a problem to be sensed, but that something was being hidden. Not understanding but trusting the Three Eyesd Master's judgement, Windu excused himself while Guru, incorrectly believing the dark side was far away, tried to find what it was that he could not sense. Guru was unable to uncover the fact that the sensation was caused by the secret plots of the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Space King.
Concurrent to the Federation's occupation on Water Realm, Guru was present when Light Guardian Master Quiet John presented Andy Stormwalker, a young boy from the planet Desertia, to the Council in the hopes of training him. Although Jinn believed Stormwalker to be the Chosen One, prophesied to bring balance to the Force, Guru and the other Council members did not share his opinion, sensing that the boy was harboring a high amount of fear and his future was uncertain. They therefore refused to allow for his training.
After Jinn and his Student Ben Oldwise returned to Water Realm, they forged an alliance between the human inhabitants of the world and the native Swamp Person species in order to combat the Federation occupation forces. The Federation's droid army was eventually deactivated after Andy Stormwalker accidentally destroyed its command ship. During the battle, however, Jinn and Kenobi dueled a Dark Warrior apprentice—Dark Horn, the Dathomirian Horned One apprentice of the Sidious—which cost Jinn his life.
With the Water Realm having waited until the Council's arrival to begin the funeral, Guru, along with other members of the Council, was present at the Water Realm victory parade and Jinn's earlier funeral, where he shared his thoughts on the apparent reemergence of the Dark Warrior with fellow Master of the Order Mace Purple, pointing out that the Rule of Two, the Dark Warrior succession system in effect at the time, meant that another Dark Warrior was still present. Unbeknownst to the two Light Guardian, the remaining Dark Warrior was Sheev Palpatine, the Supreme High Leader of the Galactic Old Republic, who had been sworn in after a Vote of No Confidence forced his predecessor Valorum to resign.
Guru and the other Council members remained at the funeral until Jinn's body turned to ash. Then, the Council left the ceremony, leaving Stormwalker, Kenobi, and Amidala's court there. With Jinn dead, following the events on Water Realm, the Council named Jinn's former Student Ben Oldwise a Light Guardian Knight, who informed Guru of his master's final will—that Stormwalker be trained. Reluctantly, Guru permitted him to take the boy as his Student. Guru also attended the parade held by the Water Realm and Swamp Persons to celebrate their victory.
Separatist Crisis
Ten years after the Water Realm crisis, several thousand systems that were disillusioned with the Galactic Old Republic seceded from the government and formed the Confederacy of Independent Systems under the leadership of Noble Title Noble, the former student of Guru who left the Order due to widespread corruption in the Old Republic. As the Space Congress, the chief governing body of the Old Republic, debated the creation of a standing army, an unsuccessful attempt was made on the life of Planet Speaker Amidala of Water Realm. After Light Guardian Knight Ben Oldwise and his Student Andy Stormwalker cornered the assassin, the killer was in turn killed by a mysterious person who escaped using his jetpack. The events prompted the Council, which included Guru, to appoint Kenobi to track him down.
Kenobi's investigation led him to attempt to find the planet Clone World, whose location had been missing from the Light Guardian Archives. This discovery alarmed Guru, who surmised that only a Light Guardian could have erased the files. Interrupting a training session with the Bear Clan, Guru helped Kenobi pinpoint the world's exact location through meditation, allowing the latter to travel there. Following Kenobi's departure, Guru experienced a vision while meditating, in which he heard the voice of the spirit of Quiet John, and sensed that Andy Stormwalker was in terrible pain. He discussed the vision with fellow Master Mace Purple afterwards.
Having arrived on Clone World, Kenobi reported that the Clone Worldan cloners had created a clone army, the order for which had been placed by Light Guardian Master Sifo-Dyas, who had perished around the time of the Invasion of Water Realm. Kenobi believed that the template used to create the army, bounty hunter Jango Clone, was the person involved in the attack on Amidala. After a brief encounter with Fett, Kenobi followed him to the planet Bug Planet, where he found that Dooku's Breakaway League ordered the assassination attempt on Amidala and had constructed a droid army. After relaying the information to the Light Guardian Council, Kenobi was captured and scheduled for execution, later joined by Amidala and Andy Stormwalker.
The Nature Wars
Battle of Bug Planet
News that Stormwalker and Kenobi had been captured prompted the Council to dispatch a Light Guardian strike team to Bug Planet, while Guru headed to Clone World to take command of the clone forces. As a clone strike team interrupted the execution of Kenobi and his associates, the clones suffered casualties at the hands of the numerically superior Confederate battle droid forces. Guru led the clones into battle, thus beginning a galaxywide conflict that would become known as the Nature Wars.
As the clones engaged the Confederacy's forces in a massive battle, Guru headed to rescue Kenobi and Stormwalker from Dooku, who had incapacitated the duo in a duel. The diminutive Light Guardian Master showed his mastery and power over the Force surpassed that of Dooku by casually repelling the latter's telekinetic assault and Force lightning. He then engaged Dooku in a brief but intense duel, having the upper hand. Dooku, realizing he was outmatched by Guru, used the Force to bring a large metal pillar down on the unconscious Stormwalker and Kenobi, forcing Guru to break off the duel and use his own powers to stop it from crushing them. Dooku used the distraction to flee aboard his personal craft. Although the battle on Bug Planet ended in the Old Republic's favor, Guru was concerned about the growing influence of the dark side of the Force and the outcome of the Nature Wars.
Mentoring Andy Stormwalker
As the Nature Wars progressed, Guru decided to alleviate Light Guardian Knight Andy Stormwalker's fear and inability to lose loved ones by assigning him a Student learner, Ashoka Friend. He believed that by becoming a teacher, Stormwalker would develop emotionally and that when the time came for Tano to go off on her own, he would understand that his excessive bonding to those he cared about was unnecessary. Tano traveled to the planet of Crystal City, where she presented herself to Stormwalker in the midst of a battle against Confederate forces.
After the battle had concluded, Guru, himself, arrived on the planet and assigned the duo to the task of finding Rotta, the son of influential Giant Slug crime lord Jabba, who had been kidnapped as part of a plan arranged by his uncle Ziro to alienate the Giant Slugs and the Light Guardian and drag the former into war. After the two Light Guardian successfully completed the mission, Guru, along with a group of clones, extracted them from the planet Desertia.
Ambush on Rugosa
Some time later, Guru and a small squad of clone troopers—composed of Clone Lieutenant Thire and two troopers, Jek and Rys—were sent to the neutral coral moon Rugosa to negotiate the construction of a Old Republic base on Toydarian territory with the incumbent monarch, King Katuunko. Simultaneously, the Confederacy dispatched Assassin Night, an assassin trained by Confederate leader Dooku, to the moon with droid escort to pressure Katuunko into siding with the Breakaway League.
Guru's starship was ambushed by two Confederate vessels upon arriving into the system, forcing him to use an escape pod to land on the surface of the moon, accompanied by three clone troopers. The Light Guardian then successfully made contact with the Toydarian delegation, prompting Ventress, who was at the king's location, to challenge Guru: if he could defeat her droid units, Toydaria would join the Old Republic, but a defeat would result in the planet pledging its allegiance to the Confederacy. The Light Guardian accepted, and Katuunko requested that he be given a fair fight—an agreement which Ventress did not intend to honor.
Encountering the droids, Guru destroyed a squad of them by himself without using his lightsaber, and returned to assist his clone companions, until the arrival of droidekas forced them to flee. The Light Guardian covered their escape by deflecting the droids' blaster fire at a nearby rock formation that collapsed and crushed them, after which he and the clones retreated to a nearby cave to rest. In the cave, Guru relaxed into his natural role as a teacher. Calling each clone by name, he raised their morale by lecturing them on their individuality in the Force.
Upon hearing the sound of more approaching Confederate units, Guru and his escort left the cave. The Three Eyesd Master engaged and destroyed three tanks and their associated infantry alone, much to the amusement of the king and the anger of Ventress, who were watching the droids' progress via hologram. Breaking the terms of the competition, the assassin sent in droidekas to take out Guru, which the clones prevented by launching their final rocket that caused the enemy to be buried under a rock slide.
Katuunko, impressed by Guru, decided to join the Old Republic. As Guru arrived to meet with the king, he used the Force to stop Ventress from killing, then returned her sabers to humiliate her. When Ventress triggered an avalanche with planted explosives, Guru saved Katuunko, Thire, Jek, and Rys from being crushed by rocks, maneuvering the debris to the side with the Force. Old Republic gunships soon arrived to retrieve the group.
Back on the cruiser, Guru entered a meditation in his cabin. He reached out with the Force to sense the clones he had served with, feeling their differences but sensing the same desires in each of them: to follow orders, win battles, and to be a good soldier. Guru pondered on the humanity of the clones, deciding that the Old Republic must understand them as humans, nurturing them instead of treating them like machines. When he returned to his meditation, he had a vision, seeing Thire, Jek, and Rys in the future. Remembering how dangerous the visions of the future were, Guru ended his meditation, but could not let go of the discomfort of the vision.
The Malevolence crisis
As the war progressed, the Confederacy developed the Malevolence, a heavy cruiser designed to incapacitate and destroy Old Republic vessels with its mega-ion cannons, which proceeded to destroy dozens of ships without leaving survivors. The Light Guardian Council dispatched Light Guardian Master Plo Mask to track down the superweapon, but upon locating it, his fleet was ambushed and destroyed by the starship. Although Koon and some clones survived in an escape pod, Guru, alongside fellow Light Guardian Mace Purple and Ben Oldwise, forbade Andy Stormwalker and Ashoka Friend to search the system for survivors, citing the threat posed by the Malevolence. Stormwalker and Tano, however, disregarded his warnings and successfully rescued Koon. The Malevolence was later destroyed by a concerted Old Republic assault.
Gunray's capture
Some time after the destruction of the Malevolence, Merchant Guild Viceroy Nute Gunray was captured by the Old Republic on the planet of Rodia, but as he was being transported to City Planet aboard the cruiser Tranquility by Light Guardian Master Green Teacher and Ashoka Friend, a Separatist boarding party led by Assassin Night freed the prisoner. Unduli and Tano subsequently reported the loss of Gunray to Andy Stormwalker and Guru.
The Zillo Beast
In the aftermath of the Battle of Malastare, High Leader Palpatine ordered the Zillo Beast to be taken back to City Planet for study. However, the Zillo Beast escaped captivity and began to rampage through City Planet. Guru and Light Guardian Army Leader Blue Warrior moved to aid Stormwalker, Kenobi, and Windu to recapture the beast. As gunships fired gas bombs in an attempt to pacify the beast, Guru, Secura, and Stormwalker used the Force to prevent themselves and their companions from inhaling the gas. The Zillo Beast was eventually killed by the gas bombs.
Facing the rising darkness
Attack on the Light Guardian Temple
During the peak of the war, Barriss Student with the help of Letta Turmond bombed the Light Guardian Temple on City Planet. Guru then ordered Andy Stormwalker and his Student Ashoka Friend to return from Bridge World to help investigate, refusing to trust anyone who was in the temple during the bombing. Guru's judgement was clouded, but he still guided the Light Guardian as the leader of the Council.
Turmond was captured by Stormwalker and Tano. In prison, she requested Tano speak with her, saying Tano was the only one she could trust. When Turmond was strangled to death by way of the Force, Darrel Wolf, who was serving as an admiral in the Old Republic Army, had Tano arrested, accusing her of being the mastermind responsible for the attack. Desperate to prove her innocence, Tano escaped the prison, resulting in a manhunt led by Andy Stormwalker and Ship Leader Rex. During the chase, Tano lost her Shoto lightsaber.
After Tano fled to the Underworld, Guru ordered Stormwalker and Plo Mask to track her down and bring her to the Temple, with some resistance from Mace Purple, who felt that Stormwalker's emotional connection to Tano would only make things worse. Tano was quickly captured by Assassin Night, who agreed to help the young Student in exchange for a pardon for Ventress' crimes as a Dark Warrior. Tano contacted Barriss Student at the Light Guardian Temple. Offee led Tano into a trap by telling her she could find evidence to prove her innocence by going to a warehouse on Level 1315. There, Offee jumped Ventress, stealing her lightsabers and mask. She attacked Tano, knocking her out in front of crates of Nanodroids and effectively framing her for the bombing.
Tano was then brought back to the Temple, where Guru and the rest of the Light Guardian Council reluctantly agreed to expel her from the Light Guardian Order and have her face a military tribunal before the Senate. Guru, Ben Oldwise, Plo Mask and several other Council members were present in the court room, where Tano was prosecuted by Tarkin and defended by Pamela Planet Ruler. However, before the jury could render its decision, Stormwalker burst in with Barriss Student, who confessed to being responsible for the bombings and the framing of Tano. In light of this revelation, Guru, Stormwalker and the Council personally invited Tano to rejoin the Order, but to their shock, she refused and left. Guru would regret the Council's decision and began to question the doctrine of the war.
Biochip conspiracy
Several years prior to the start of the war, Palpatine and his apprentice, Noble Title Noble secretly created the Clone Army with the assistance of an unsuspecting Sifo-Dyas, who had seen visions of a conflict beforehand. When this was done, they had organic inhibitor chips implanted in their brains, which would cause the clones to do anything Palpatine told them to, in this case execute the Light Guardian. With one simple command, the clones would enter a trance-like state and perform whatever orders they were given.
During the Battle of Ringo Vinda, clone trooper Tup murdered Light Guardian Master Tiplar when his inhibitor chip was activated prematurely. Sidious ordered Dooku to apprehend Tup to prevent the Light Guardian from discovering the truth. Tup was eventually sent to Clone World after Andy Stormwalker, Ship Leader Rex and ARC trooper Fives were able to recover Tup from a Separatist Transport.
After escorting Tup to Clone World, Fives and Rex were greeted by Light Guardian Master Shaak Guardian, alongside the main developer of the clones, Clone Worldan scientist Nala Se. Rex returned to Ringo Vinda while Fives remained on Clone World to undergo examination in case of Fives having a similar situation. Disputes over the tests led to a debate. While Shaak Guardian advised a brain scan, Nala Se suggested terminating the clone and preforming an autopsy to isolate the case. Shaak Guardian contacted the Light Guardian Temple where Guru, alongside Ben Oldwise, decided Tup should be brought to the temple to be examined through the Force.
What the Light Guardian were unaware of was that the Clone Worldans knew of the inhibitor chips and were working with Noble Title Noble, who used his Dark Warrior name, Tyranus, to prevent the Light Guardian from making the connection. Dooku ordered that Tup be terminated and that the chip be sent to him to be looked at.
Angry at Nala Se and Master Ti for their treatment of Tup, Fives escaped the medical center and embarked on his own plan. Fives faked leaving the planet, but stayed to try and save Tup and discover the truth. He and the medical droid AZI-3 were able to preform a brain scan on Tup, where they learned of the inhibitor chips. Fives had the droid take the chip out of his and Tup's brains. Unfortunately, the already-weakened Tup died soon after the operation, whispering his last words to Fives. Fives blamed Nala Se for what happened to Tup. Suspecting the Clone Worldans of treachery, and with the support of Master Ti, Fives insisted on presenting his evidence and the removed chips directly to Palpatine. Fives was eventually brought to City Planet, at the request of Shaak Guardian, where he was brought before the High Leader. As the ship landed, Nala Se drugged Fives, causing him to act strange.
When Fives attempted to assassinate Palpatine, Guru was a part of the Light Guardian Council that ordered Andy Stormwalker to investigate. Fives was killed in the end, and Guru was ultimately told that the doctors had found another cause, and that a vaccination had been prepared in case of a future incident.
The mystery of Sifo-Dyas
Sometime later, the Light Guardian received a distress signal from a moon near Oba Diah. Sending Plo Mask and Unit Leader Wolfe to investigate, they found the remains of a shuttle and the lightsaber of Light Guardian Master Sifo-Dyas, who was killed sometime around the Battle of Water Realm while dealing with a conflict on Fungus Planet. Upon reviewing the temple archives, Jocasta Archive and the Light Guardian found that the information had been sealed by order of the Supreme High Leader. While sending Andy Stormwalker and his master, Ben Oldwise to Fungus Planet, Guru went to speak with Palpatine, not knowing he was the Dark Warrior Lord that orchestrated the murder and the creation of the clone army. Palpatine told Guru to visit High Leader Valorum, as these events had happened before the vote of no confidence that led to Palpatine becoming chancellor. Palpatine then contacted Noble Title Noble, telling him to destroy the last piece of the puzzle before the Light Guardian would be able to unravel the mystery.
Anakin and Obi-Wan attempted to communicate with the native tribe on the Fungus Planet, but were unable to understand them. They did learn, however, that a second Light Guardian had shown up with Sifo-Dyas.
Valorum told Guru that he had sent Sifo-Dyas to negotiate with the Pyke Syndicate to stop a booming drug trade underneath City Planet. Valorum also revealed that he kept this secret, fearing his opponents in the bureaucracy. The talks were postponed after the Council sent Sifo-Dyas to intervene on Fungus Planet. Valorum was unable to identify the second Light Guardian, but did say that his assistant, Silman, was with Sifo-Dyas when he was shot down.
Eventually, Guru dispatched Anakin and Obi-Wan to Oba Diah, where they learned the Pykes were paid to shoot down the ship carrying Sifo-Dyas, but had kept Silman captive as leverage and that Dooku was in fact the individual known as Tyranus, leading them to realize Dooku impersonated Sifo-Dyas to help push forward the Nature Wars. Guru, not knowing how to stop the plot, suggested the Light Guardian keep the discovery a secret, and that they should keep playing the Dark Warrior Lord's game.
Discovering immortality
While meditating during the end of the war, Guru heard the voice of Quiet John, who demonstrated his presence by levitating Guru. The encounter left Guru distracted during the subsequent Council gathering, leaving them worried about whether the stresses of the war were finally taking its toll on him. While strolling through the Temple gardens, Guru was greeted by Anakin. Guru asked him about his encounter with Qui-Gon's spirit on Mortis, which Anakin had dismissed as a trick, noting the Light Guardian belief that one could not retain their identity after becoming one with the Force. Guru responded that he now questioned this dogma.
Guru confessed what happened to the Council, much to their disbelief. They agreed though to meditate with him, to verify his experience. Despite meditating together for an entire day, they were unable to hear anything. Ki Wise expressed worry that Guru had become susceptible to Dark Warrior manipulation, so Guru underwent medical tests that revealed that he was still in good health. Light Guardian Doctor Rig Nema suggested Guru undergo a deprivation ritual that would allow him to meditate more strongly and find the source of the voice.
Agreeing, Guru was suspended in a liquid tank with an oxygen mask to bring him as close as possible to death without actually becoming one with the Force. While unconscious, Qui-Gon's voice requested Guru go to Swamp Planet, and to tell no one about it. After, Obi-Wan broke open the tank due to his concern over Guru's failing life signs.
Put on bedrest and under guard, Guru convinced Anakin to help him escape by posing as simply accompanying each other for a walk. Guided to the Light Guardian Temple Hangar, Anakin lent Guru his astromech droid, Beep-Boop to accompany him to his personal interceptor. Guru and Beep-Boop flew to Swamp Planet, where Guru asked the droid to stay with their ship while he found a clearing to meditate.
Qui-Gon's voice greeted him. Guru asked why he could not see him. Qui-Gon explained he had not been fully trained enough to do so. The Living Force appeared to Guru in the form of fireflies, guiding Guru to a cave strong with the dark side, it showed the Light Guardian Master a vision of the future, where a hooded Dark Warrior Lord slaughtered the Light Guardian. Qui-Gon explained to a distraught Guru that he would help him bring hope for the future, and directed him to the planet that spawned the midi-chlorians.
Arriving there, Guru gave his lightsaber to Beep-Boop for safekeeping, and descended into the world to meet the Force Priestesses, who agreed to teach him how to achieve life after death. First, Guru confronted a manifestation of his own dark side, conquering his hubris. Next, he witnessed a vision of the Light Guardian massacred in the Temple, where an apparition of a dying Ashoka Friend asked him if she would still become one with the Force after being expelled from the Light Guardian Order; this vision was a manifestation of Guru's guilt over having placed Tano on the path that led to her departure. An apparition of Katooni then invited Guru to enter a peaceful courtyard to escape these painful events. Seeing Quiet John, Kenobi, Tano, and Dooku together, alive and full Light Guardian, Guru eventually recognized the vision's falsehood, overcoming its temptation and his attachment to those that have fallen.
Instructed to complete his tests on the Dark Warrior homeworld of Moraband, Guru and Beep-Boop flew to the valley where the ancient Dark Warrior Lords were buried. Recognizing the danger, Guru instructed Beep-Boop to return to the Light Guardian Temple and inform the Council of what happened, if he did not come back after three nights. Specters of a serpent, undead Dark Warrior warriors, and even Dark One Bane himself confronted him, but Guru brushed them off. As he entered a temple execution chamber, the Force Priestesses warned Guru that whatever he encountered there would be beyond their control.
Unknown to Guru, Dark Space King and Dooku sensed his presence on Moraband, and met in an abandoned tower in the industrial sector of City Planet. Using Dooku and Guru's Force-bond, Sidious planned to reach out to Guru and crush his spirit. Appearing in a vision to Guru in the form of Sifo-Dyas, Sidious temped Guru, until the Three Eyesdmaster rejected him. The Dark Lord then had Guru wake up in a Old Republic attack gunship with Anakin and members of the 501st Legion, en route to terminate the Dark Warrior on City Planet. As they arrived, the clones, led by Ship Leader Rex, rushed at Dooku only to be killed with Dark Warrior lightning. Stormwalker immediately attacked Dooku while Sidious fled. Walking sadly past the fallen clones, a dismayed Guru witnessed Stormwalker defeat Dooku and brutally decapitate him. However, he left Stormwalker and pursued Sidious.
Emerging out on a catwalk, Guru and Sidious dueled. Stormwalker tried to help, but Sidious knocked him out. Sensing an opportunity, Sidious damaged the catwalk, forcing Guru to divide his attention between Force-lifting Stormwalker to save him from falling to his death and blocking Sidious' Dark Warrior lightning. After Sidious taunted him by suggesting he sacrifice Stormwalker to concentrate on defeating him, Guru put down his lightsaber to ensure Stormwalker's safety. As the catwalk collapsed, Guru maneuvered Stormwalker to safety, then Force-threw his saber to ensure the Dark Warrior would fall and grabbed Sidious, dragging him down too. Guru tore Sidious's hood off, seeking his identify, but in the vision world only seeing a shadow, then an empty robe, before both fell to their "doom." The incident proved Guru's selflessness and demonstrated his resolve to Sidious, who concluded the illusion as he realized it would take more to defeat or taint the Light Guardian Master.
Guru awoke and was greeted by a Priestess who explained he would continue his training with Qui-Gon's spirit. As she disappeared in a glow of light, Guru had a vision of the future, including his own death. Guru returned to the Light Guardian Temple, where Windu and Kenobi greeted him in the garden. Guru claimed his journey had been uneventful, but wondered how long the Light Guardian could resist the dark side during the war.
Sinkhole World crystal crisis and Tree World defense
Following the death of Master Tu-Anh on the sinkhole world of Sinkhole World, Guru and his fellow Light Guardian Council members sent Master Kenobi and Anakin on a mission to investigate her death. They discovered that she had been investigating Separatist efforts to excavate and obtain a giant kyber crystal on Sinkhole World. After destroying the crystal and thus denying the Breakaway League access to the weapon, Guru was present at a Council meeting when the two Light Guardian gave a report of the events on Sinkhole World. During the meeting, Guru recounted how the ancient Dark Warrior had constructed superweapons using massive kyber crystals to power them up. He feared that Dooku's mysterious master Dark Space King had similar intentions.
Guru traveled to the defense of Tree World and helped fight off Separatist raiders who threatened the Hairy Friends. In addition to having been granted the title due to his negotiations with the Lizard Mans, Guru was granted the Defender of the Home Tree title for his help in protecting the planet.
The plan to assassinate Noble Title Noble
Guru and his fellow Light Guardian Council members witnessed Noble Title Noble's devastating attack on Mahranee, the home world of the Mahran species, via hologram. The Council was reluctant to condone an assassination, but ultimately concluded that killing Dooku was necessary to end the war and prevent more deaths. The Council decided to use Master Quinlan Vos, who had considerable experience with undercover work, to assassinate the Separatist leader. When Vos suggested that a partner accompany him, Guru recommended Assassin Night, Dooku's former Dark Warrior apprentice and a Nightsister for that mission, knowing her hatred for Dooku. Ventress agreed to assist Vos with his mission but insisted that he had to learn the ways of the dark side.
Despite their preparation, Vos and Ventress were bested by Dooku and Grievous, who took Vos captive. Dooku then managed to bring Vos over to the dark side by revealing that Ventress had murdered his late Master, Tholme. After Vos spurned Ventress' offer to rescue him, he became Dooku's newest Dark Warrior apprentice and assumed the persona of "Sea Leader Enigma." Ventress informed Master Kenobi who conveyed the news to his fellow Council members including Guru. For the next several months, Sea Leader Enigma scored several victories for the Separatist cause.
When Vos' old friend Akar-Deshu, a Mahran Light Guardian, brought Ventress into a Council meeting to discuss rescuing Vos, Guru and Kenobi spoke up for Ventress when Windu wanted to arrest her. During the proceedings, Guru and his fellow Light Guardian learned that Ventress had instructed Vos in the dark side in order to defeat Dooku. While Windu was suspicious of Ventress, Guru and Kenobi were convinced that she genuinely cared for Vos and that she had rejected the Dark Warrior ways for good. After sending Ventress along with Desh and Anakin outside, Guru and his fellow Light Guardian debated whether to include Ventress in their rescue mission. When Master Kenobi suggested leading the operation to rescue Vos, Guru accepted Kenobi's offer and also argued that Ventress was key to the rescue mission. He also recommended that Kenobi take both Ventress and his former Student Stormwalker along for the mission.
After receiving intelligence from Sea Leader Wullf Yularen that Noble Title Noble and "Sea Leader Enigma" were planning to attack Taris, the Light Guardian Council decided that they had to move quickly to rescue Quinlan. In the end, the Council decided to offer Ventress a pardon for all her crimes in return for rescuing Vos. The rescue mission was a success and the Light Guardian succeeded in recovering Vos alive. To reward her services, Ventress was formally pardoned. Unknown to Guru and his colleagues, Vos had become a Separatist double agent in order to gain Dooku's trust so that he could learn the identity of Dark Space King and destroy the Dark Warrior once and for all.
Using his position in the Light Guardian Order, Vos leaked intelligence about Light Guardian and Old Republic military operations to Noble Title Noble; allowing the Breakaway League to undermine these operations. After several Council members voiced their suspicions about Vos' true loyalties, Guru had a personal meeting with Vos and was able to deduce that Quinlan had fallen to the dark side. To test Vos' loyalties, the Light Guardian Council sent him to assassinate Dooku, but secretly sent Kenobi and Stormwalker to tail him.
Vos managed to defeat Dooku in lightsaber combat, but did not kill him. When Vos demanded that Dooku lead him to Dark Space King, Kenobi and Stormwalker promptly revealed themselves and arrested the two men. After learning of Vos and Dooku's arrest, Master Guru ordered Kenobi to bring them back to the Light Guardian Temple where they would be interrogated and executed for their crimes. However, Vos and Dooku escaped with the unwitting help of Ventress, leading to the events of the second battle of Crystal City. In the end, Ventress helped Vos return to the light side, but was seemingly killed by Dooku. Kenobi and Stormwalker then recaptured Vos and brought him back to City Planet.
After Vos confessed all his crimes and explained his motivations to destroy the Dark Warrior, Guru and his fellow Council members accepted Vos' repentance as genuine and pardoned him. Kenobi, who believed that the order to assassinate Dooku was morally wrong and responsible for Vos' fall to the dark side, took on the responsibility of monitoring Vos during his rehabilitation. Kenobi accompanied Vos to Dathomir for Ventress' funeral.
Last days of the Nature Wars
Three years after the initial battle on Bug Planet, the Old Republic was crumbling under the attacks of the Confederacy. Throughout the course of the war, Palpatine had been granted ever increasing personal authority by the Senate to command both the war and the Old Republic at large. The Light Guardian Council, though reluctant to oppose the extremely popular High Leader, nonetheless grew ever more concerned about the continual centralization of political power in Palpatine. A Separatist attack on the Old Republic capital world of City Planet was launched by Army Leader Steel as well, with Guru taking part in the defense of City Planet. Guru used the Force to make enemy craft collide with each other.
Shortly after the battle, Stormwalker came before Guru, seeking counsel. He had been experiencing terrifying visions of the death of a loved one, though he did not reveal that the one in question was his secret wife, Pamela Planet Ruler. Guru warned Stormwalker to be wary of his visions and of his own feelings, as fear was a path to the dark side, and advised him to "train himself to let go of everything he feared to lose." Stormwalker, however, was dissatisfied with this answer, as he could not bear the thought of losing someone he loved. Shortly afterwards, Palpatine, hoping to increase his influence over the Light Guardian Council and further ingratiate himself with Andy Stormwalker, appointed the young Light Guardian to be his personal representative on the Council. The Council, having little choice, begrudgingly accepted Palpatine's interference, but refused to grant Stormwalker the rank of Light Guardian Master, infuriating him. Additionally, the Council gave Stormwalker the unofficial assignment of spying on Palpatine, an assignment which Stormwalker was less than enthusiastic about, as he regarded Palpatine as a friend and a mentor.
Following Stormwalker's appointment, the Council chose to take action to avert an imminent Separatist invasion of Tree World. Guru chose to personally oversee the defense, as he was held in high esteem by the Hairy Friends. Before leaving for the planet, Guru discussed with Obi-Wan and Windu about Anakin's assignment. Kenobi expressed his former Student's disagreement, and asked if he was not going to fulfill the prophecy when Windu doubted his abilities. Guru suggested that it could've been misread, but Obi-Wan believed they would not be let down, which Guru hoped would be true.
On Tree World, Guru participated in a holographic session of the Council, where he learned from Stormwalker that Old Republic intelligence located the fugitive Army Leader Steel in the Sinkhole World system. When Anakin volunteered to lead the campaign, with the stated approval of Palpatine, Guru and Mace both disagreed, and Guru nominated Kenobi to be sent instead. Agreeing with the Three Eyesd Master, fellow council member Ki Wise seconded the nomination and the decision was made. Guru left the call and was approached by Unit Leader Gree, who told him that the droids had started their power generators. Guru ordered his troops to prepare, and soon after the battle began. He observed the battle from above when a shot almost hit him.
Later, on a meeting in the Temple's war room with Windu, Anakin, Mundi, and Blue Warrior, they were interrupted by Unit Leader Cody, who informed that Army Leader Kenobi had engaged Grievous and that the battle had begun on Sinkhole World. Stormwalker was then sent to deliver the message to Palpatine, since his reaction to this news could give the Council clues about his intentions. After Anakin left, Mace informed the other Light Guardian that he felt a plot to destroy the Order, and that the High Leader was surrounded by the dark side. Mundi and Windu suggested to take control over the Senate in case Palpatine did not abide of his emergency powers, though Guru expressed that this would lead them to a "dark path", and that they would need to be careful.
Right afterwards, Ashoka Friend and Unit Leader Rex joined the call. She revealed that they successfully captured Maul on Warrior Home and that he would be delivered to City Planet by them, which Guru considered a great service. Ahsoka stated she did her duty as a citizen, but when Guru asked if it was not as a Light Guardian, she simply said that "not yet". Tano wanted to speak with Stormwalker, but since he had left, Windu and Guru explained Obi-Wan's situation to her. When she realized the war could end soon, Windu retorted that it would depend on Palpatine, but refused to explain more to her, which did not sit well with Guru. As the members of the call left, Guru stayed and asked Ahsoka if she had anything else to say, and after a brief silence, she confirmed she would tell the information to Anakin himself. Guru then said "May the Force be with you, Student." and ended his transmission.
As the battle on Tree World continued, Supreme High Leader Palpatine revealed his true identity as the Dark Warrior Lord Dark Space King, killed a group of Light Guardian Council members who had come to arrest him, and with his offers of dark knowledge, turned Andy Stormwalker to the dark side of the Force. When Sidious bestowed the name of Bart Gleider to Stormwalker, Guru felt the moment through the Force.
Order 66
Christening his newfound apprentice Bart Gleider, Sidious sent him and part of the 501st Legion to attack the Light Guardian Temple and slaughter all who resided there. Meanwhile, Sidious began to broadcast Order 66 to the clone troopers, a contingency order that required them to eliminate their Light Guardian Army Leaders, which the clone complied to due to the activation of their biochips.
As the clone army betrayed and turned on their leaders galaxy-wide, Guru sensed the deaths of his fellow Light Guardian and fell to his knees. Unit Leader Gree and Ship Leader Jek received Order 66 a few moments afterwards and prepared to shoot Guru. However, Guru sensed their intentions and decapitated the duo with his lightsaber. He then proceeded to escape with the help of the Hairy Friends Fluffy and Tarfful in a Hairy Friend escape pod, rendezvousing with Planet Speaker Bail Organa of Peace Star and Ben Oldwise, who had escaped death on Sinkhole World.
The two Light Guardian discussed their situation, during which Bail and Guru informed Kenobi that the Temple was broadcasting a coded retreat message, ordering all surviving Light Guardian to return to City Planet. Guru and Kenobi decided to return to the Temple and reconfigure the beacon to warn any survivors to go into hiding, and to that end Bail took them to City Planet. The two Light Guardian fought their way in and witnessed the effects of the rampage by Vader and his clone unit, including the visible lightsaber cuts on several dead Light Guardian. In the meantime, Sidious, as Palpatine, reforms the Old Republic into the first Space Kingdom with himself as its Space King. That was the beginning of the Age of the Empire.
The Age of the Empire
Duel in the Senate
Having recalibrated the signal, Kenobi wished to learn the identity of the one responsible for the massacre. Guru, aware that watching recordings of their fellow Light Guardian being slaughtered would cause Kenobi pain, cautioned him before the younger Light Guardian activated the security recordings. The duo thus learned of Andy Stormwalker's fall to the dark side, his Dark Warrior title of Bart Gleider, Palpatine's Dark Warrior identity and the formation of the Space Kingdom from the Old Republic. Agreeing that the two Dark Warrior had to be destroyed, Guru headed to the Space Congress to confront the Space King, while a deeply reluctant Kenobi departed to the volcanic planet of Lava World to face his former apprentice.
Upon arriving into the Chancellery Secretariat, Guru confronted the Space King, who surprised the Light Guardian and rendered him briefly unconscious with a burst of Force lightning. As Sidious boasted how he came to eradicate the Light Guardian Order, Guru managed to wake up and slammed his opponent into a wall. Sidious attempted to depart, but was barred by Guru. The duo then drew their lightsabers and engaged in a fierce duel that soon continued into the central auditorium of the Senate Building, driving the Dark Warrior back to his speaking pod. Briefly separated from Guru, Sidious launched the numerous Senate hoverpods at his opponent, but the Light Guardian nevertheless managed to catch up with him, engaging him at close quarters again with his lightsaber drawn. Sidious then blasted Guru with a burst of Force lightning which tore Guru's lightsaber from his hand, but which the Light Guardian proceeded to successfully deflect with his bare palms. Guru slowly redirected Sidious's force lighting at him, appearing to give the Light Guardian Master the upper hand. However, the buildup of energy subsequently triggered an explosion that blew both combatants apart and caused Guru to fall to the bottom of the chamber, while Sidious was thrown out of the pod but managed to barely hold on to one of its guardrails, gaining the high ground. Despite neither conquering the other, Guru realized he had been defeated, which prompted the Light Guardian Master to flee through the maintenance tunnels of the building. He then contacted Organa to rescue him via his airspeeder, considering the duel his personal failure and voicing his intent to go into self-imposed exile.
Exile
After being rescued by Organa, the two proceeded to the asteroid Asteroid Base, where Guru conferred with Quiet John's spirit, who offered him to train him in techniques that could help him retain his identity after his death. Ben Oldwise, having defeated but not killed Vader on Lava World, arrived soon thereafter, bringing with him the dying Planet Speaker Amidala. She gave birth to her twins from Andy Stormwalker and named them Mike and Leia before her death.
Sensing the children's power in the Force, Guru, Kenobi and Organa decided to keep them hidden in unsuspecting locations to avoid detection by the Empire; Mike Stormwalker was delivered to the Lars family on Desertia, while Organa personally adopted his sister, Leia. As the trio prepared to go their separate ways, Guru asked Kenobi for a moment of his time. He revealed that he had training for him during his solitude on Desertia, and that Quiet John had reached the path to immortality, having returned from the Netherworld of the Force. Guru decided he would teach Kenobi to communicate with Jinn.
Using an E3-standard starship lifeboat, Guru returned to Swamp Planet to begin his own exile where he waited for the twins to grow up and continued his studies of the Force. The lifeboat served as Guru's initial shelter but it started to degrade within a year due to Swamp Planet's swampy environment. As the first shelter was slowly consumed by the swamp, Guru built a new home for himself. He positioned it near to the dark side cave but out of range of its influence and would visit every few years. Furthermore, Guru's light side presence on Swamp Planet kept the Cave in check, holding the Cave's dark influence back and, in doing so, keeping the Swamp Planet ecosystem in balance. However, the Swamp Planet wet season created a need for the Light Guardian Master to regularly relocate to the planet's highlands for the duration. Following the destruction of the Light Guardian Order, Guru was listed as one of the Truth Seekerius' priority targets amongst presumed survivors of the Great Light Guardian Purge.
Around a year after Order 66, Tano was hiding on the world of Thabeska, where she had met a Force-sensitive child named Hedala Fardi. Despite her young age, the child proved to be wise, and Tano was upset that Fardi would likely never be able to prove her wisdom to Guru. Later, while sleeping aboard the CR90 corvette Tantive IV after Organa offered her a chance to join his rebellion, Tano remembered Guru's advice to her when she was getting her first kyber crystal. Awaking and knowing she should make a new set of lightsabers, she thanked Guru, even though she knew he could not possibly hear or help her.
Helping the Spectres
During his exile on Swamp Planet, Guru kept an eye on other Light Guardian throughout the galaxy, including those who ventured into the various Light Guardian Temples found amongst the stars. Approximately four years before the Battle of Jungle Moon, Guru spoke to Kanan Jarrus, who had been the Student of Depa Billaba and a survivor of Order 66. Jarrus had traveled to the Light Guardian Temple on the planet Grassland with his own Student, Ezra Bridger, to whom Guru also spoke. Bridger was in the temple in order to overcome his greatest fears; Guru acted as an anonymous guide in helping Bridger do so and to understand why he wanted to become a Light Guardian and how to withdraw from the anger and the wish of revenge within him. This guidance led Bridger to receive a kyber crystal, which he used to build his own lightsaber. Meanwhile, Guru counseled Jarrus about Jarrus' insecurities as a teacher.
The year after, Jarrus and Bridger returned to the Grassland Temple with Ashoka Friend in search of a way to defeat the Truth Seekerius. Guru cast an illusion of the Light Guardian Temple Guard for Jarrus, including the Three Eyesd Truth Seeker as he was before the Light Guardian Purge. The Truth Seeker forced Jarrus to recognize his fears and knighted him a true Light Guardian. Meanwhile, Bridger pleaded with Guru for help: though still filled with fear and shame and thus disinterested in fighting the Empire before training a new Stormwalker, the Light Guardian Master ultimately rendered aid and directed him to go to Malachor. When the other Truth Seekers arrived, Guru used the Temple Guard to distract them as the Light Guardian escaped. As she fled, Tano turned back and saw Guru, who smiled and waved at her: she smiled back being the last time they saw each other.
The last Light Guardian
During the events that led up to the Battle of Jungle Moon, Guru noticed that with the Swamp Planet rains ended it was time to migrate back to his lowland hut, and was grateful as his usual accommodation for the wet season reminded him too much of the Light Guardian Temple and his failings. He reflected on how age had affected him and realized that he had become truly reliant on the walking stick he had originally adopted as an affectation for a joke played on his padawans. The Light Guardian packed what little he owned and left but not before he checked for the Imperial probe droids which had once searched for him endlessly.
As Guru descended farther downhill, however, he felt a presence. It was neither a probe droid nor one of the Empire's ships but vibrations in the Force from Ben Oldwise and what remained of Andy Stormwalker. A probe droid then appeared and Guru quickly took out a pot given to him by Kenobi. He used the Force to smash it into the droid only to suddenly sense Kenobi's death at the hands of Bart Gleider. With the Light Guardian distracted, two more droids arrived but Guru crushed them both and continued on home.
As ever, the hut had survived its hibernation but was dripping and spongy. Five days later, Guru had dried and cleaned the house. Each time he saw the shelf usually reserved for his pot, he reacted with some loneliness after destroying Obi-Wan's gift to him. Feeling his isolation, he reached out to the netherworld of the Force to speak to Quiet John, but the spirit of Obi-Wan answered instead and requested that Stormwalker's child be trained. Having harbored regrets about not having taken the man's daughter as his apprentice, and assuaged that he had enough time left to teach another pupil, the Light Guardian Master readily agreed until he found out that Kenobi was actually speaking of Anakin's unfocused son instead. Nevertheless, Guru begrudgingly allowed Kenobi to direct the boy to him. As Guru ruminated on his decision afterwards, he returned to the "Cave of Evil" and was reassured that the site had no new fears to show him.
A phantom visitor
Sometime later, a mysterious woman once known as Madelin Sun who became known as "The Archivist" arrived on Swamp Planet in search of Guru at the behest of Lady Qi'ra, the leader of the crime syndicate Crimson Dawn, who wanted Guru's help to take down the Dark Warrior. When the Archivist was attacked by a monster after arriving on the planet, Guru used the Force to save her from a distance and then led her into the dark side cave in order to dissuade her from looking for him. Having a change of heart, she left the planet as Guru watched from afar. The Archivist returned to Qi'ra, lying and telling her that Guru was dead.
Haunted by Kenobi
Three years after agreeing to train Stormwalker, Kenobi contacted Guru, who at first ignored the late Light Guardian Master's spirit. Kenobi urged Guru to see reason and acknowledge the growing darkness in the galaxy. Guru mused that the threat had become too powerful—too big—for him to defeat, to which Kenobi reminded Guru of the first lesson the latter would teach new Light Guardian: "size matters not." Guru admitted that he had sensed Kenobi's demise and had been avoiding him on purpose, once again expressing a defeatist attitude to the situation at hand. Kenobi dismissed the notion, not believing it himself and saying he did not think Guru believed it either. Guru reflected on his own inability to stop Dark Space King and the fall of Andy Stormwalker, stating the galaxy was better off without him.
Guru later had a dream in which Bree Menaren, Guru's old pupil, taught and encouraged him to play the taratti. Guru, sensing something was amiss, turned to see the sky blocked out by a massive battle station. The Light Guardian Master drew his lightsaber to find himself facing an apparation of Andy Stormwalker as a Student, his eyes glowing yellow, also encouraging Guru to play with the toy. Activating his weapon, Guru was confronted with a twisted vision of an undead Quiet John, who berated Guru for his ignorance before engaging him in a brief lightsaber duel. Guru began to deny his claims, only to be annihilated by a blinding green light crashing down from the superweapon above.
Guru woke from the nightmare to find Kenobi at his side. When Guru questioned the spirit's continued presence, Kenobi stated that he would remain until Guru agreed to hear him out and do as he asked. The elder Light Guardian master, looking to get away from Kenobi, set out from his hut to find herbs for his soup. Kenobi followed, reminiscing about times past and reminding Guru about his making pastries when Kenobi was but a youngling. Not finding any herbs, Guru remarked he had made a wrong turn only to realize that he and Kenobi had arrived at the Cave of Evil—exactly where Guru needed to be, Kenobi opined, "from a certain point of view."
Entering the Cave of Evil
Guru refused to go inside, believing that was what Kenobi wanted of him, to which Kenobi merely asked Guru if he thought that would be the right course of action. Guru noted that the location was stong in the dark side and had nothing to prove, with Kenobi reasoning that his fellow master should therefore have nothing to fear. Guru dismissed the venture as a foolish waste of time but relented nonetheless.
Entering the vergence, Guru was startled by a creature of Swamp Planet's wildlife, the Light Guardian Master grumbling that he had become old and foolish. Guru was then confronted by a voice from the shadows—an apparation of Dooku, his former apprentice. The illusion blamed Guru for his fall to the Dark Side, revealing his hand in the death of Yaddle and beginning to duel Guru. Guru then experienced a vision of High Old Republic Era Light Guardian Keeve Trennis, who refused to help Guru and, like Dooku, blamed him for her final fate.
Trennis used the Force to push Guru into a mound of skulls, which a burning Andy Stormwalker claimed to be the Light Guardian Master's failures—those who had died. Bail Organa, Pamela Planet Ruler, and Mace Purple emerged from the grave, reminding Guru that they had looked to him for answers. Guru replied that he could not have known how things would ultimately turn out, only for a spectre of Dark Space King to cite the Light Guardian Master as the greatest of his apprentices, blind and unaware. Sidious noted there way no way back because of him, to which Guru began repeating the phrase and drowning in the pile of corpses.
It was then that Bree appeared, reminding the Light Guardian Master that there was no situation was entirely without hope—something he had learned from Guru himself. Bree elaborated that one could make as many mistakes as was required because, as Guru finished the thought for him, "the greatest teacher, failure is." Guru remembered the lessons of the Light Guardian and struck down the remaining ghosts of his past.
Exiting the cave, Guru found Kenobi waiting for him. Guru answered an affirmative to the question on Kenobi's mind, agreeing to train the son of Andy Stormwalker. Removing Bree's taratti from his robe, Guru stated that he was ready to teach but also ready to learn.
Taking a new apprentice
Soon thereafter, Mike Stormwalker, under guidance from the spirit of Kenobi, sought Guru in his Swamp Planet exile to receive Light Guardian training. At the same time, Guru, stirred awake by the feeling of the dark side and the memories of his trauma years ago, went to his storage area to find it empty. In an effort to find food, he made the arduous trek across the wild terrain of Swamp Planet. Eventually, Guru made it to a valley, full of colorful creatures, and another species in particular. Herds of these creatures ran through this valley, the best source of meat Guru had yet been able to find.
Years ago, Guru in his shame had decided to give up his lightsaber, promising to never wield one again, taking a bow instead. To get what he came for, Guru readied his bow and took aim of one of the creatures, easily killing it with one shot of the bow. On his journey back, Guru began to feel the ground shift beneath his feet, beginning to crumble as Guru began to fall. At the last moment, Guru grabbed onto the side, reflecting on the similarities of this moment to his duel with Dark Space King many years ago. Guru's grip failed and he falls onto the ground below as boulders began to pile on top of him. Guru fell unconscious.
Guru began to dream, the dream of pain, suffering, anger, hate, and suddenly, he awoke once again. Realizing the predicament he was in, Guru began to laugh, laughing at his foolishness for allowing him to get into this situation. He began to doubt himself, thinking of how he was now trapped on Swamp Planet, but subsiding those feelings, knowing he was one of the last of the Light Guardian. He reached out to the Force and, in that moment, he realized that his shame, his hubris, his blindness, had all clouded his vision and realized his failings as a Light Guardian. However, he knew that failure was the greatest lesson a Light Guardian could learn, and understanding this brought him peace as he rejected allowing his shame to guide him any more. With this newfound peace, Guru reattuned to the light and used its power to move the boulders resting on top of him. With a newfound sense of responsibility and understanding, Guru began his journey home.
Arriving back at his home, Guru began to cook a stew, when he began to hear a crashing in the trees surrounding his hut. A visitor had arrived. He walked out of his hut to discover this new visitor, realizing it was Stormwalker, the boy Kenobi had allowed to travel here to learn from him. As he stared at Stormwalker from the trees, he came to the realization that he would not be the last Light Guardian, but only the instrument as to train the future.
Walking out, he decided to test the boy and did not reveal his true identity, instead promising to lead him to Guru. With Stormwalker growing annoyed while in Guru's hut as the Light Guardian Master made rootleaf stew, Stormwalker's subsequent frustration and his age made the Light Guardian doubtful as to whether it was a good idea to train the boy, but Kenobi's spirit managed to convince him to do so. Over the next few weeks, Guru trained the young Light Guardian.
Guru proceeded to tutor Stormwalker with a variety of exercises, including the telekinetic manipulation of objects in the area. As part of his training, he also sent Stormwalker into the dark side cave in order to demonstrate the dangers of falling to the dark side of the Force. During his tenure with Guru, Stormwalker sensed that his friends were in danger in Cloud City on the gas giant Cloud City, and headed there to confront Bart Gleider in spite of Guru's and Kenobi's persuasion to the contrary. Although Kenobi was distraught by Stormwalker's rushed departure, Guru reminded him that there was still another offspring of Andy Stormwalker—Lily Organelle.
A disturbance in the Force
Sometime later, the same mysterious woman helped activate the Fermata Cage, a mysterious artifact created by Dark One Momin. On her second attempt, Guru along with other Force users amongst the galaxy sensed the disturbances emanating from the cage.
Death
Stormwalker, having engaged in a duel with Vader on Cloud City, returned to Swamp Planet after a year. Guru, ill and very close to death, confirmed what Vader had revealed to the young Light Guardian on Cloud City: that the Dark Warrior Lord indeed was Andy Stormwalker, his father. He also warned him that with his training fully complete, his final task would be confronting Vader again and defeating him, and cautioned Stormwalker not to underestimate the Force powers of Galactic Space King Dark Space King. Guru also said that when he dies, Mike will become the last of the Light Guardian. Therefore, he wanted Mike to pass on what he had learned. Finally, he also managed to inform him of the existence of another member of the Stormwalker family. Guru then died, and his body disappeared as he became one with the light of the Force. The Cave of Evil took advantage of the Light Guardian Master's faltering presence and subsequent death to finally expand its influence once more, spreading a darkness across Swamp Planet.
Postmortem and legacy
Thanks to the techniques passed on to him by Quiet John's spirit, Guru managed to retain his consciousness without a physical presence by becoming a Force spirit. Mere moments after his death, he was able to appear to Sidious, who had felt his death in the Force. Sidious, who had been fantasizing about killing Guru himself in the past few minutes as well as inwardly celebrating his demise, was surprised by Guru's appearance, thinking the feat impossible. Putting on a show, he gloated on the fact that Guru was now dead and implying that Guru was there to witness Sidious' final glory as he crushed the remnants of the Freedom League and took Mike Stormwalker as his new apprentice. Guru stressed that Sidious could not win, but Sidious pointed out that he already had. Awaiting Guru's reply, Sidious discovered that his specter had vanished.
Mike Stormwalker later used the training he received to confront Dark Space King and Bart Gleider aboard the DS-2 Doom Sphere II Mobile Battle Station over the forest moon Forest Moon as part of an all-out attack on the station by the anti-Imperial Freedom League, defeating Vader and turning him back to the light side of the Force, resulting in Sidious' death at the hands of the redeemed Andy Stormwalker. As Anakin died from his wounds, Guru and Kenobi appeared to him, smiling upon their redeemed friend.
Guru then taught Anakin the ability of retaining his consciousness after death. As the rebels and Mike celebrated on the surface of the moon due to the demolition of the Doom Sphere II and the deaths of Sidious and Vader, the ghosts of Anakin, Kenobi, and Guru briefly appeared to Mike. After that, Anakin asked Guru and Kenobi whether Mike would be alright, and Kenobi responded as Guru stood by. For the next years, Guru's spirit, alongside Obi-Wan and Anakin, continued to guide Mike. Though it was rare, Guru also spoke to Leia offering her guidance and teachings of the force over the years of her life, teachings she would later pass on to Ray of Light.
Approximately five years after Guru's passing, the Armored One bounty hunter Din Djarin took a member of Guru's species, Grogu, to train under Ashoka Friend on the planet of Corvus. While with Djarin, Tano explained that she had only met one other member of Grogu's species: Master Guru. Tano refused to train the Child but told Djarin that Grogu could reach out to other Light Guardian at the seeing stone on the planet of Tython. Thus, Mike Stormwalker learned of Grogu and, after saving Djarin, Grogu, and their allies from a platoon of Dark Troopers, took Grogu as an apprentice. Thirty years after Guru's death, another Force sensitive, Ray of Light, heard Guru's voice describing the Force during a vision she witnessed upon touching the lightsaber that previously belonged to Mike and Andy Stormwalker.
Sometime later, and after Ray of Light had visited Mike on his hermit-island on Ahch-To, a disillusioned and self-loathing Stormwalker tried to burn down what few Light Guardian artifacts and writings were left in hopes that it would rid the galaxy of the Light Guardian once and for all, who, through him, had failed. Mike was surprised by the sudden appearance of Master Guru as a Force spirit, who not only did not seem to mind the ancient scripts burning up, but was the one to actually start the fire by causing lightning to strike the tree. In fact, unbeknownst to Mike, Ray of Light had already taken the Sacred Light Guardian texts when she left. During their meeting, Guru pointed out that mistakes and failure were important lessons, if not the most important lesson, for a Light Guardian Master. Ultimately, Guru helped Stormwalker come to terms with his failed training of Ren Bolo, and to realize that despite his fear of failing another student he could still be what Ray of Light needed. Inspiring Mike to face his past and forgive himself. This final, heartfelt meeting between the two friends led Mike to change his mind and help save the New Rebels from certain defeat during the Battle of Crait.
During the Battle of Exegol in 35 ABY, Guru's voice was heard by Ray of Light among the voices of many Light Guardian of the past who aided her with destroying the resurrected Dark Space King. "Alone, never have you been," he told her, before telling Ray of Light to "rise in the Force."
Personality and traits
Known for his wisdom, Guru had spent eight centuries training and tutoring generations of Light Guardian. Guru was an ideal grandmaster. When he joined her Force-bond network, Light Guardian Master Avar Kriss felt Guru's mind form its own part of the chorus of the Force. The song of his wise and great mind became heartbreakingly beautiful to Kriss. Despite his appearance not making it seem like it would be so, his voice appeared to be made up of pure light, so Kriss considered him the epitome that people were not simply the crude matter of their bodies, a lesson that Guru would later pass on to Mike Stormwalker. He was reluctant to accept Andy Stormwalker or Mike Stormwalker for Light Guardian training, considering them unfit. In both cases, however, he allowed Ben Oldwise to persuade him into accepting them as trainees.
Guru understood that nothing and no one was perfect, but that there was good or the potential for good everywhere and in everything. He urged his friend, High Leader Kyong Greylark to continue fighting for good in the galaxy when she was uncertain, including her work establishing communications all the way to the Outer Rim. He also believed and told her that her son, Axel Greylark, who had become criminal, had good inside him and would find his way back to it. Even when Greylark gave up her High Leadership, he still stood by her, offered her his kindness, and even accompanied her for a dangerous mission just because she was his friend.
There was a small garden in the Light Guardian Temple where Guru often took to meditating, with the other Light Guardian usually respecting the privacy of such moments. Indeed, Guru's favorite place to be was his own thoughts, being able to meditate and feel the calm Living Force flow throughout him. When Dooku triggered a partial room collapse during his duel with Guru on Bug Planet, the Light Guardian, confronted with the choice of pursuing the fleeing Dark Warrior or protecting the hurt Ben Oldwise and unconscious Andy Stormwalker from the falling debris, opting to save his comrades instead of going after Dooku. However, when fellow Master Plo Mask's fleet was destroyed by the Confederate superweapon Malevolence, Guru forbade Andy Stormwalker and Ashoka Friend to conduct a search for Koon, citing the danger posed by the Separatist vessel. Early in the Nature Wars, after learning he would be confronting Dooku's apprentice Assassin Night during his mission on Rugosa, Guru was disappointed to not be facing the Noble Title himself, believing that he could end the bloodshed by meeting with Dooku; Guru believed he could connect with his former Student and redeem him to the light side of the Force. Later in the war, however, Guru reluctantly agreed to a plan to assassinate Dooku in the name of stopping the war. Ben Oldwise, after the plan's failure, would argue to his fellow councilmembers the mission had been a step too far into the dark.
Student Reath Silas believed that having Guru as a master would be "pretty fun" whilst discussing Guru's former apprentice Kantam Sy. Guru's favorite method of teaching was to ensure his students could figure things out for themselves. Even if all Guru did was wait for the student to catch up to speed, he found that they almost always realized what they needed. When Master Mace Purple questioned whether Guru had sensed something or not, he waited until the younger Light Guardian realized he was sensing nothing. Windu remained confused, forcing him to explain that the feeling of nothing needed to be caused by something. He disagreed with Windu's sentiment that "nothing" and "something" were always opposites, and he made sure to never be fully sure of himself, knowing there was more to learn. Windu also knew that, if he asked whether the Three Eyesd Master was afraid, he would turn the question back at him.
Guru remained calm even when insulted, such as when the mud dwellers called him a "weird little frog". During the Invasion of Water Realm, Guru believed himself comfortably away from the dark side, unaware of the growing power of Dark Space King, with the exception of what he knew he could not feel. Indeed, Guru concerned himself with trying to uncover the feelings that were hidden from his senses, which he eventually understood to be the dark side. Guru was able to resist being tempted by the specter of the dead Dark Warrior Lord Dark One Bane, who had appeared to him in a vision on the planet Moraband, recognizing that the spirit was a mere illusion and rejecting its call to the dark side. However, he was quite concerned and worried about the danger and threat of the Nameless, which he secretly knew of quite well, opting to keep information about them out of the Light Guardian Archives so that they would not be known and used against the Order.
Guru's teachings stuck with his students, even if at times they had to struggle to understand their true meaning. Upon hearing pilot Leox Gyasi explain why he had named his starship "the Vessel," Silas was struck with the opinion that Gyasi sounded like what Guru's teachings would be like if the Light Guardian Master took spice. As such, Silas decided his reasoning was either a very good or extremely bad sign. Despite barely knowing the Three Eyesd Master, Silas was greatly struck by his disappearance during the High Old Republic Era, with fellow Student Ram Jomaram, despite having never even met Guru, agreeing and feeling the same. As he neared his death before the Battle of Forest Moon commenced, Guru accepted his own mortality and imminent demise and died becoming one with the Force. Guru's ears were expressive and would sometimes curl when he was expressing strong emotions like surprise. These ears were also highly sensitive and also sometimes would move to express his emotions. The Three Eyesdmaster preferred to not kill his enemies if it was not needed, if he had the opportunity to resolve a fight by disarming or overawing his foes. Guru opposed profanity, urging others to not use such language.
Guru also had a sense of humor and curiosity, despite his age and wisdom. Part of the reason Guru kept up his sense of humor was that Light Guardian Master Mace Purple, even as a youngling, did not respond well to it. As such, he took teasing his fellow council member, once asking if he had arrived for a private discussion because he had embarrassing questions, which Windu denied instantly. Afterward, he elected to wait to speak, wanting Windu to begin the discussion and viewing it as him cracking as if he was under pressure. Windu also found Guru's behaviors distracting, yet he would always trust the older Light Guardian's judgement and he himself described Guru as "hilarious". His sense of humor continued with others, as shown when he playfully rummaged through Mike's belongings when he first met him, fought Beep-Boop for a torch, and laughed gleefully when he supposedly set the ancient Light Guardian texts on fire, and finding Mike's continued ignorance amusing, commenting that he had "missed him." Also when Kenobi told him about the planet Clone World missing from the archives during his class, he responded with, "Lost a planet, Master Kenobi has. How embarrassing. How embarrassing!" Being unable to destroy Dark Space King and bring down the Empire made him sad.
Guru was highly secretive about his homeworld and never revealed it to anyone. Despite his intensive Light Guardian training and high status within the Order, he stated that he secretly had a dislike for ancient Light Guardian texts. He had a distinctive and peculiar speech pattern: namely, he would rearrange words in his sentences, placing subject and object in front of the verb; for example, he would frame sentences like "Good relations with the Hairy Friends, I have."
Powers and abilities
Light Blade combat
Despite his small size and old age, Guru was an extremely accomplished lightsaber duelist, wielding a short green-bladed lightsaber. Guru used the Ataru saber form, boosting his body with the Force to be able to perform the needed movements. Such was his mastery of this form that Guru could duel Sidious and almost defeated the Dark Warrior. Guru was a master of the Niman style of lightsaber combat, retaining his skills with the form for his whole life.
Guru was extremely skilled in blast-deflection and proved more than capable of taking on multiple enemies at the same time and winning easily: he was able to single-handedly defeat without getting even a single shot to his person an entire army of droids that Ventress sent as a test for King Katunko whether to accept the Light Guardian or the Breakaway League as an ally.
The greatest display of Guru's skills with a lightsaber was when he dueled the Dark Warrior Lords Noble Title Noble and Dark Space King. When he fought Dooku, Guru maintained the upper hand through the duel, forcing Dooku into the defensive, and would have defeated him had he not decided to flee. His duel with Sidious, although initially well-matched, eventually began to turn into Guru's favor, forcing Sidious to use the Force to confront him.
Force powers
Even despite his small size and old age, Guru was extremely powerful and accomplished in the Force. with a connection to that power and knowledge of Force techniques that may well have surpassed that of any other Light Guardian. Ben Oldwise considered Guru to be the most powerful Light Guardian he ever knew. The Three Eyesdmaster was heralded as the greatest Light Guardian of all time, at least until the fall of the Old Republic. Guru was utterly committed to the light side, but he also had a deep understanding of the dark side as well as how both halves of the Force interacted. The idea he was the greatest of the Light Guardian went back centuries, at being held least to 232 BBY. The toll age took on Guru's body did not prevent him from still being strong in the Force when Mike Stormwalker trained under him. Even in death, as a Force spirit, he had power over weather.
Guru was extremely skilled in telekinesis and all forms of it. When Avar Kriss worked with the other Light Guardian to shove a sun-bursting explosive Avar Kriss found his level of power (which he lent via her Force Song) to be very grand, helpful, and impressive. When on a mission to free a child, Guru gripped two pirates who were holding the child and held them helpless, before making them punch each other and then threw them into the air. Then Guru defeated the rest of the pirates in the room when they attacked him. Guru used Force deflection against a Blue stone spear thrown at him by a member of the Mud dwellers, though holding the spear with the Force was hard for Guru. Guru then levitated many boulders and rocks to catch the rest of the spears thrown at him and kept the rocks levitated for a whole conversation. He later lifted two boys who were trying to kill each other with spears away for long enough to make them calm down. Guru was unable to repel many of the Blue stones that were thrown at him with the Force by the Rockhawkers, due to how hard it was to affect with telekinesis and his unwillingness to harm the children he faced. Later, and having mastered Stonepower, Guru was able to casually blast the Rockhawkers who attacked him, subduing and disarming them without inflicting lasting harm.
When facing Dooku on the planet Bug Planet, Guru demonstrated his superior telekinetic mastery by effortlessly repelling every metal piece and stone slab thrown by the very skilled Dark Warrior Lord. During a confrontation with Confederate forces on the coral moon of Rugosa, Guru effortlessly pulled two droids to slash them with his lightsaber, flung multiple pieces of the droid controlling one of the infantry high into the air and both opened the upper parts of another infantry tank, then sent it and the droid controlling it into the air. It was with ease that Guru raised and moved droids to fire upon their allies and slammed whole squads of droids down, without harming his own allies. After the droids were dealt with, Guru easily overpowered the powerful Dark Warrior Assassin Assassin Night with telekinesis, stopping her lightsaber strike mid-way and disarming her with a simple gesture, and repulsed the many stones caused by Ventress activating an explosion. If Guru had no desire to touch the ground, he could simply float in a mediative state.
Force barriers were a tool in Guru's skill set, as seen when he stopped a cloud of deadly gas. Guru could strike down his foes by hurling his saber at them, guiding the blow with his telekinetic skills. When he went to try to destroy the Dark Warrior Space King, Guru effortlessly defeated two Red Guards by knocking them into a wall. He was even able to breach the Space King's defenses and blast Dark Space King himself through the air with a Force push and was able to stop and throw a Senate hoverpod Sidious had thrown at him when they fought in the Senate building, an all the more impressive feat since it was thrown upwards against gravity. Later, on Swamp Planet, Guru used the Force to throw a pot at an Imperial Probe Metal Helper, destroying it. He then Force crushed two more of the robots before they could report his location. In order to teach Mike Stormwalker that anything was possible with the Force, Guru levitated his student's sunken T-65B Cross Fighter starfighter out of a swamp of Swamp Planet and onto dry land with no visible strain.
With just a few days of training, Guru was able to learn how to use Stonepower and thus deflect Blue stones thrown at him. Guru could move a chunk three times his size--something unknown to his master, though Guru was then exhausted by doing so. Guru could also use Stonepower to stop strikes from giants of living stone, and with the aid of those he taught, call forth other giants to defeat the one he was fighting. Guru was capable of employing the power of Force lightning, to the point that he could make several arcs of energy lance out in different directions from only a single finger. Guru could manipulate flames with the Force.
Light Guardian Student Bell Zettifar pondered whether Guru, after putting great focus into the effort, could use the Force to stop gravity. In his duel with both Dark Warrior Lords Noble Title Noble and Dark Space King, Guru displayed great proficiency in Force Deflection, as he was able to easily stop and then redirect Dooku's Force lightning attack with his bare hands and even managed to stop Sidious' Force lightning attack using just his palms but was unable to deflect it completely: the energy eventually exploded and flung both of the combatants away from each other, ending the duel in a stalemate and causing Guru to escape. Guru could dampen or even negate the might of Force powers used to attack him by radiating a calming aura. Guru could employ the Force to absorb blaster fire and negate the strikes of lightsabers with his bare hands and channel the energy from blasters or lightning he absorbed into making his own attacks such as Force push and Force lightning more deadly.
His ability to use the combative applications of the Force notwithstanding, Guru's incredibly strong connection to the Force combined with his years of extensive study also granted him numerous supplementary abilities. Guru could enhance himself and seek out objects or persons he knew about regardless of the distance, and easily see though and/or destroy many Force illusions at once. During the trial of Quinlan Vos, Guru revealed that he could uncover the alignment of a Force-user just by touching them; stating that the Force had permitted him to read the history of a soul, able to easily sense that he had fallen to the Dark Side despite Vos being proficient enough to hide it from many other Light Guardian. Guru could detect the lies, emotional states, and thoughts of those he interacted with.
While physically isolated on Swamp Planet, Guru was able to see other Light Guardian that were active in the Force; he could not see one that had forsaken the ways of the Light Guardian, with the exception of Vader who was still exposed to his monitoring. Guru could detect living things and droids with the Force and while on Swamp Planet he could sense all droids on the entire planet or the lack thereof. He could keep in mental contact with the Light Guardian Temples across the galaxy, and telepathically converse with any Light Guardian–even to the point of manipulating the experience to his desires–within them by accessing the World Between Worlds. Guru, still on Swamp Planet, was able to conjure an illusion of the Three Eyesd Truth Seeker (from when he was a Light Guardian) to fight Kanan Jarrus as a test and sight of worthiness. He also sensed that the place where Ezra Bridger and Kanan Jarrus could be assured of a chance to fight the Dark Warrior was Malachor, and so told Ezra. When the Grassland Light Guardian Temple was invaded, Guru sent illusions of Light Guardian Temple Guards at the Truth Seekers, subduing them for long enough for the living Light Guardian present to flee.
With some effort, Guru could make himself and the powers he invoked impossible to detect with the Force and go unnoticed by most. When two Blue stone spears were struck together, Guru sensed the disturbance this caused. He also sensed the killings that took place during Order 66, the shock of which literarily staggered him, so forewarned by the Force, Guru was able to destroy the Clones soon sent to slay him on behalf of the Dark Warrior. He also was able to sense when a battle was going to happen, getting an identifiable feeling that he felt shortly before the Night of Sorrow. Guru could use the Force to see even in total darkness or when blinded. Additionally, Guru was able to use Force healing, even to the extent of healing himself and those around him while in battle with just a wave of his hand. Guru was also shown to be capable of experiencing Force visions and could invoke such insights at will for information up to three days into his personal future. However, he understood that Force prophecy was not absolute and that the future was always in motion. The Three Eyesdmaster could make great leaps with the Force, to maneuver and dodge and charge. His visions led him to foresee the possible, and eventually actual, fall of the Light Guardian in the Nature Wars and even his own death. Guru sometimes knew if he was probably going to die in a battle he fought in and could augment his physical abilities.
He also was able to fully master the skill of maintaining consciousness after death, something that Quiet John was unable to do, allowing him to manifest a visible presence rather than simply being a disembodied voice. As a Force spirit, Guru was capable of manipulating weather to create lightning strikes. He was also shown to be capable of striking Mike Stormwalker with his walking stick, demonstrating an ability to interact with the living world in a physical sense despite both Guru and the stick being ostensibly non-corporeal.
Other skills
Guru was also known to have a level of proficiency in piloting despite often leaving it to his soldiers, as when he was forced to travel alone by Quiet John, Guru displayed the ability to pilot Anakin's personal interceptor comfortably and was able to avoid inflicting any damage on it until he returned to the Light Guardian. Sidious and Guru were equally matched during their duel in the Space Congress.
According to Obi-Wan, Guru's thirst for knowledge was the grandmaster's greatest weapon. Guru could walk for hours without food or rest up a mountain/giant. Student Reath Silas once reflected that he could feel Guru's wisdom and knowledge from even a kilometer away.
During the Nature Wars, Guru proved himself to be an exceptional strategist and leader, being a highly effective general. His abilities in those regard were displayed during a confrontation with Confederate forces on the coral moon of Rugosa: Guru was able to inspire hope into his troopers despite the overwhelming odds and was able to easily tactically defeat the army of droids, exploiting the weak-points of the infantry and tanks to systematically destroy them and at one point tricking one of the droids controlling the tanks into destroying the other tank.
Guru was a skilled diplomat. Although his cooking on Swamp Planet left much to be desired, Guru was skilled at baking, with Light Guardian Master Torban Buck particularly enjoying Guru's pastry recipe.
Equipment
Throughout the Old Republic Era, Guru wielded a shoto-style lightsaber, although he lost it in a duel with Dark Space King at the end of the Nature Wars. He kept a near identical lightsaber with him on Swamp Planet. He was also known for using a cane. It began as a lesson, but really more of a joke, for his Students; he would limp into a room with the cane, then he would cast it aside and quickly use his speed in the Force, only to finally grab the cane once more and hobble away. His intention was that the Students would then be left questioning whether or not he actually needed the cane. Nevertheless, as he grew older during his exile on Swamp Planet, he found he truly had come to need it. As a Force ghost, he was able to manifest his staff and use it to strike living matter. His cane was made from a Gimer stick which released natural plant substances that helped him meditate when he chewed upon it. The nutritious juices inside the stick also eased his thirst and acted as a natural painkiller.
Behind the scenes
The Original trilogy
The character of Guru made his first appearance in the 1980 film Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back, and subsequently appeared in Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Light Guardian, the closing installment of the original trilogy. He was also featured in all three episodes of the prequel trilogy, and multiple episodes of the Star Wars: The Nature Wars and Star Wars Rebels animated television series. Guru also played a role in various Expanded Universe material now under the Star Wars Legends brand and thus non-canonical. In George Lucas' notes for the first chapter of the original trilogy Guru originally named as "Bunden Debannen" and nicknamed as "Buffy". During the development of the sequel, Lucas, likening the character to "a little Dalai Lama", decided to use an eastern sounding name and changed the character's name to "Minch Guru" in the resultant treatment before simply shortened it to "Guru" for the final film.
Much of the information and training that Guru gave to Mike on Swamp Planet was originally going to be given by Ben Kenobi, but due to Kenobi's death in A New Hope, George Lucas conceived Guru to fulfill the role of Mike's teacher after Kenobi's death. Early concepts of Guru imagined him as a large alien before he was reimplemented as a tiny one, with various gnome– and elfin-like portrayals being created by the design team of Episode V. Once Guru's appearance was finalized, make-up and creatures supervisor Stuart Freeborn sculpted a detailed puppet, brought to life on screen by Frank Oz. Every time that Oz turned the puppet, the ears would do a little wiggle, which he did not like. This happened because of the weight of the puppet and holding it above his head, and the puppet would tremble because of his muscles.
While Guru was largely depicted with the Oz-performed puppet in The Empire Strikes Back, actor Deep Roy stepped in for long shots of Guru walking through the swamps. For these shots, Roy wore a detailed mask and full costume. Guru had additional play in the draft script for Return of the Light Guardian: when King Shadow strikes at Mike Stormwalker with Force lightning aboard Doom Sphere II, the Force ghost of Guru would have appeared alongside the ghost of Kenobi. Both Light Guardian would have deflected the Space King's lightning to protect Mike. Like Andy Stormwalker and Kenobi did in the draft, Guru also returned to life instead of remaining a ghost.
The Prequel trilogy
A new model, younger in appearance, was built by Nick Dudman's animatronics crew for the filming of Episode I, in which Guru also appeared as a CGI model for two shots' duration. In Episode II, Guru needed to be more agile than he was in the original trilogy and would have to fight during his duel with Dooku, which was a creative risk for the film. Initially, Lucas told Animation Director Rob Coleman that Guru would be featured as a puppet and the animators would create a digital version of him for his duel with Noble Title Noble, but Coleman did not love the idea. He thought that it would be very difficult to match what was done for the Guru puppet in The Empire Strikes Back and interpret how the puppet's movement would be put into a digital character. Early on in briefing, Lucas told Coleman and his team that Guru would be seen full-body and he would have to run, jump, and fight. Coleman felt like he and his team could work on Guru after gaining knowledge and experience from working on Watto, Jar Jar Binks, and Sebulba in The Phantom Menace. The new goal was to use a digital Guru for every scene and sequence that he appeared in. Designed specifically to not exceed Oz's puppetwork in realism, the animated version of Guru was accepted after Coleman's crew secretly developed animation tests using key scenes from The Empire Strikes Back using the new technology, and these scenes were evaluated. Based on the strength of these animated tests, Coleman's crew was given permission to create a digital Guru, which was realized entirely through computer-generated imagery.
Creating a digital Guru terrified Coleman because of the backlash against Jar Jar, and he did not want to be known for "wrecking" Guru, but he was unwilling to back down from a challenge. Coleman's memory of seeing Guru in 1980 managed to keep him on target. Coleman studied the footage of Guru in the Empire Strikes Back frame by frame and realized it was very limited. When creating the digital Guru, he wanted himself and his team to honor the range of motion he thought he saw in 1980. Coleman pitched that the digital Guru would do three talking shots while delivering memorable lines of dialogue, as well as three shots without talking to show the ability to convey a performance even when silent. Coleman worked on a closeup of Guru for the film in which Palpatine was speaking to Light Guardian in his office, and Lucas purposefully cut to Guru who was looking over his shoulder. This was meant to indicate that Guru did not trust Palpatine.
Coleman worked with Frank Oz in order to make sure that his digital Guru could be as faithful as possile. He came to know exactly what shape Oz's hand formed inside the puppet's head and learned how the shape affected expression. Coleman made sure that he did not go too far in terms of Guru's movement. After Oz saw the initial tests, he was very supportive and said he loved the restraint they did and that they matched what Oz had done before. At first, the digital character did not include the original detail of how Guru's ears wiggled everytime the puppet's head moved. This caused Guru to not appear old, which was considered to be a vital part of his character. Coleman's team added the detail in the digital character, and Guru now looked the correct age.
From the start of the creation of Guru and Noble Title Noble's lightsaber duel, most of the work would fall to Coleman's team. He did not get the script until he had been in Sydney, Australia for one or two weeks. The first draft described the fight as "'In a fight that defies description, Guru and Noble Title Noble battle." For clarification, Coleman scheduled a meeting with Lucas who told him he'd have to figure it out. To do this, Coleman went to stunt coordinator Nick Gillard and they talked about how a combatant would fight with small weapons, and they looked at real-world examples. Also, Ahmed Best, the actor who played Jar Jar, introduced Coleman to some anime and martial arts that he thought could be helpful. However, Coleman still was not sure how to depict Guru's speed and style in a fight. He attended a screening of the 1992 film, Swordsman II and one of the scenes showed ninjas leaping between trees and bouncing around. Coleman studied the action in the film, and this inspired him to give Guru the ability to jump around. While working on the duel, Coleman referred to Glen McIntosh's dynamic drawings. In the duel, Lucas wanted a shot of Guru pulling back his duster to reveal his lightsaber as a reference to the iconic shot of the gunfighter at the O.K Corral. After finishing the duel, Lucas and Coleman felt happy with it. Despite Coleman's concerns, Lucas wanted Guru to jump, leap, and flip during the duel.
Coleman worked on a shot that was called "The Widowmaker." In the shot, an animated Guru denounced Kenobi's sense of victory and said "Begun, this Clone War has." That line was approved and unapproved a couple of times. Also, Coleman received many notes telling him the line had to be sadder. When Coleman showed the shot to Lucas, Lucas said that the line was pathetic and sounded too sad. Lucas said Guru should not sound sad, and should instead sound reflective, concerned, and upset over the inevitability of the Nature Wars.
For Episode III, the shot of Guru clinging to the Senate podium during his duel with Sidious was animated by Tim Harrington. Coleman thought that his blocking was excellent, but Coleman was looking for more strain on Guru's face. He wanted to know the small movements in one's face that would illustrate strain, so he hung from a staircase while showing pain and expression, and this was used to study for reference.
Animated television shows
Guru's Star Wars: The Nature Wars and Star Wars Forces of Destiny incarnation was voiced by veteran Star Wars voice actor Tom Kane. During the Revenge of the Dark Warrior DVD press conference in 2005, Oz initially mentioned that he was going to be involved in the Nature Wars series, but in a 2007 interview with Aintitcoolnews.com he eventually denied any involvement. In spite of this, Oz later returned to voice the character in Star Wars Rebels. Piotr Michael provided the voice for Star Wars: Young Light Guardian Adventures.
Concept art
The Sequel trilogy
Oz continued to perform as Guru in all three films of the sequel trilogy: the 2015 film Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens, the 2017 film Star Wars: Episode VIII The Last Light Guardian, and the 2019 film Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Stormwalker. In The Force Awakens, Guru's voice was heard during Ray of Light's Force vision along with Ben Oldwise's. During the film's early development, Guru was originally going to have a bigger role, a decision that went far enough to ask Frank Oz to record some lines as Guru, although these recordings went unused when the character was cut from the film. The Last Light Guardian director Rian Johnson praised the development process for Guru's appearance in the film.
Discrepancies
The number of toes on Guru's feet has long been debated. In Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Guru is given as having three toes at the front of each of his feet, and one at the back, comparing them with that of many birds.
Non-canon content
On October 29, 2014, for a Halloween-themed update, a costume of Guru was added to The Sims 4 for playable child Sims to wear in-game. The costume is purely cosmetic and offers no gameplay changes.
Appearances
Non-canon appearances
Sources
Non-canon sources
Notes and references
External links
